One of the smallest of the nation's top-tier law schools, Washington and Lee School of Law is located in a college town in the majestic Shenandoah Valley of Virginia, a three-hour drive from Washington, DC and within an hour of several other metropolitan areas.
The Washington and Lee University School of Law seeks to cultivate broad-minded, highly skilled, and honorable practitioners of law. We do so within a diverse and collaborative intellectual community exemplifying rigor, trust, and civility.
The Washington and Lee University School of Law seeks to cultivate broad-minded, highly skilled, and honorable practitioners of law.  We do so within a diverse and collaborative intellectual community exemplifying rigor, trust, and civility. 
While law schools have traditionally taught all students in the same way for all three years, at W&L Law, you will encounter a sequence of learning experiences rooted in the basic assumption that each year of law school should present new and different challenges while pushing you further along the continuum from beginning law student to lawyer-to-be. 
With a student body of around 370, a student-faculty ratio of 7 to 1, and a location among the most picturesque and as peaceful as exists, W&L Law offers a unique environment in which to immerse yourself in the study of law.
Founded in 1849, the School of Law has a rich history and counts among its alumni many distinguished practitioners, judges and entrepreneurs, including several U.S. Supreme Court Justices and the third most number of American Bar Associations presidents produced by any single law school.
W&L Law by the numbers. Look here for our class profile, employment data, and various reports from the ABA and NALP. Washington and Lee University School of Law has been accredited by the American Bar Association since 1923. 
For more information regarding ABA accreditation: Council of the Section of Legal Education and Admissions to the Bar of the American Bar Association, 321 North Clark Street, Chicago, IL 60610,(312) 988-5000.