The University Library is comprised of Leyburn Library and Telford Science Library and serves the undergraduate schools of the College and the Williams School.
The Wilbur C. Hall Law Library serves the Law School and is located in Sydney Lewis Hall.
The University Library and the ITS Help Desk have integrated their services and share the centrally located Information Desk on the main floor of Leyburn Library. From this desk, they deliver many services, including:
The Washington and Lee University Library includes:
Leyburn Library and Telford Library are open 24 hours a day when classes are in session. Alternate hours apply during summer, breaks, and holidays.  University ID cards are needed to access the buildings between 10:00 PM and 6:00 AM.
Coffee, other hot and cold drinks, and snacks are available in Leyburn Library's Book Nook.
The University Library collections include over 725,000 volumes, thousands of periodicals in print and electronic form and other electronic sources (including electronic article alert services), microforms, video in DVD and VHS formats, music CD's, and selected print and electronic newspapers.
The University Library is a selective Federal Depository Library for U.S. Government publications, as is the W&L law library.
Leyburn Library also houses rare books, manuscripts, specialized local history and University history materials in our Special Collections.
Most books and videos are arranged by the Library of Congress classification system, periodicals are shelved alphabetically by title, and the Federal Depository publications are shelved by the SuDocs system.
The University's Integrative and Quantitative (IQ) Center is located on the second floor of the Telford Science Library. Featuring the latest technology and instruments, the Center is devoted to data acquisition, data storage, computation, visual imaging and innovative teaching methods. The 4,841 square foot facility incorporates five different spaces: The Analytical Instruments Suite, a "Traditional" Computer Visualization Lab, a 3D High-Performance Visualization Lab, a Physical/Mechanical Experimentation Lab and a Large Format and 3D Printing Room.
More Information:
The law library is open 24 hours a day when classes are in session. University ID cards are needed to access the building between 10:00 PM and 6:00 AM.
The Law Library's Scholarly Commons repository preserves the scholarship, publications, historical documents, and selected records of the law school and makes them available to the public.
More Information:
Leyburn and Telford Libraries are open 24x7 to W&L students, faculty, and staff when classes are in session. University ID cards are needed to access the buildings between 10:00pm and 6:00am.
The general public is welcome between 6:00am and 10:00pm throughout the week.
For more details, please reference our Hours page.
204 West Washington StreetLexington, VA 24450540-458-8643https://library.wlu.edu
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement