New gift establishes the Frances Young Tang ’61 Professorship in Economics and the Frances Young Tang ’61 Asian Studies Program Endowment Fund.
The Skidmore College baseball team scored eight unanswered runs after falling into an early hole and outscored host Williams 15-5 after the second inning to pick up a 16-12 non-league win over the Ephs on Tuesday afternoon.
 
Equipping students with lessons from across the sciences, social sciences, arts, humanities,
                     and other fields to contribute, communicate, and create, with confidence.
At Skidmore, we believe interdisciplinary study allows you to open your mind and creatively
                        connect different ideas. We also believe these core skills are essential for personal and professional success. Why? Because Creative Thought Matters, and thinking across boundaries is one of the most powerful ways to change the world and develop a happier, healthier, and more inclusive society. 
At Skidmore, no one discipline dominates. Rather, you’ll be encouraged to connect
                        different modes of thinking and ideas from multiple fields. We call it a “do both” mentality. Our intentionally broad, flexible, and supportive education experience makes it easy
                        to dive into a singular passion or mix and match what matters to you by adding a minor, pursuing a double major, or creating an altogether different path.
In addition to completing your general education requirements, you'll have the opportunity to engage — with professors, advisors, mentors, and peers
                           at your side — in an expansive network of holistic experiences, programs, and opportunities
                           designed to guide you through a journey of assessing who you are, what you want to
                           learn, and the life and career you want to develop. 

From summer advising and creative pre-orientation and orientation offerings to engaging
                                                   academics and thoughtful support programs, FYE will help you land in your comfort
                                                   zone, then challenge you to step out of it.

From summer advising and creative pre-orientation and orientation offerings to engaging
                                                   academics and thoughtful support programs, FYE will help you land in your comfort
                                                   zone, then challenge you to step out of it.

                                                					Each student has a faculty advisor who helps them make the most of their educational
                                                experience, establish academic goals, choose a major, and explore special opportunities
                                                for engagement.
                                                				

                                                					SAS provides academic support to ALL students through peer academic coaching, tutoring, and individual and group guidance, with a special focus on students with disabilities, international students, and student-athletes.
                                                				

                                                					Our summer program offers students the opportunity to work closely for 5-10 weeks
                                                with faculty members from a variety of disciplines and gain invaluable, firsthand
                                                research experience.
                                                				

                                                					Periclean Honors Forum offers a supportive intellectual community for highly
                                                motivated students. The membership program includes rigorous courses, field trips,
                                                campus dialogues, and lectures.
                                                				

                                                					Skidmore takes seriously its mission to prepare grads to live as informed, responsible,
                                                and globally and interculturally aware citizens who strive to make the world a better
                                                place for all.
                                                				

                                                					Feed your wanderlust; it's easy here. Off-campus Study and Exchanges offers 120
                                                approved programs in 45 countries for you to choose from as well as dozens of opportunities
                                                for short-term trips through coursework or research.
                                                				

                                                					Beginning in Year One and extending to Job One and beyond, students and grads
                                                have lifetime access to the CDC’s on-demand resources and career-support specialists,
                                                all the while being encouraged to pursue careers and lives of purpose.
                                                				
An Interdisciplinary campus
It's more than just talk. At Skidmore, we walk the walk by investing in spaces and
                           facilities that mirror and support our dedication to an interdiscplinary, liberal
                           arts education. In addition to traditional classrooms, labs, and lecture halls, we're
                           proud to offer unique resources and spaces that make this campus an ideal location
                           for creative thought to thrive. 
Arthur Zankel Music Center
Zankel Music Center is both a public concert venue and an educational space open to
                                          everyone – whether you plan to study music, want to take lessons, enjoy singing or
                                          playing as hobby, or want to sit back and enjoy the show.
Inside you'll find the Skidmore Music Department, practice and recording studios,
                                          and the Helen Filene Ladd Concert Hall, an acoustically tuned, 600-seat auditorium.  
Learn more 
Frances Young Tang Teaching Museum and Art Gallery
As both a teaching and a public art museum, the Tang is at the intersection of academic
                                          and artistic discovery. In addition to being a resource to students and faculty, with
                                          nearly 40,000 visitors each year, a 5,000-piece collection, and a rotating exhibition
                                          schedule, it brings a world-class experience to the heart of campus. Experiential opportunities are available for students to participate in integral aspects
                                          of museum practice.
Learn more
John B. Moore Documentary Studies Collaborative DOCLab
DOCLab brings the tools of audiovisual media and documentary storytelling into the
                                       Skidmore curriculum and the local community. Staffed by a team with students with key media competencies and specialties, DOCLab emphasizes learning to use cutting-edge
                                          media, storytelling, and documentary tools in a collaborative, peer supported, hands-on
                                          and project-based environment.
Learn more 
Lucy Scribner Library
Skidmore's library presents a comfortable and productive environment designed for
                                          research and collaboration. It offers a variety of print, electronic, and audiovisual
                                          material including over 350,000 print volumes, 70,000 full-text journals, and 250
                                          databases, all of which have been carefully selected to support the teaching and research
                                          needs of the Skidmore community.
Learn more
Schupf Family IdeaLab
Housed inside Skidmore's Billie Tisch Center for Integrated Sciences, the IdeaLab
                                       is a hub of "learning through making." The innovation center and makerspace provides tools and support for cross-disciplinary making, from 3D printing and electronics
                                          to sewing and prototyping.
Learn more
Wyckoff Center
Within the Case Student Center is Wyckoff Center, Skidmore's dedicated space for connecting
                                       people and programs that underscore the importance of diversity, equity, inclusion,
                                       and justice. 
Learn More

Campus Map & Directions
Request Information
Visit Skidmore
Copyright © 2024 Skidmore College. All rights reserved.