Washington and Lee University is committed to providing equal access to educational opportunities to qualified students with physical or mental disabilities and reasonable accommodations to qualified employees with physical or mental disabilities, in accordance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act. The University is also committed to ensuring that all individuals have access to information and information technology associated with administration and services, courses of instruction, departmental programs, and University-sponsored activities.
By following design standards, acquiring appropriate hardware and software, and improving the technical environment, the University sustains and improves access and services to students, faculty, staff and visitors — including those with disabilities — and makes W&L websites, information and services accessible to the widest possible audience.
Undergraduate Disability Resources
Washington and Lee University is home to exceptional students who are intelligent, honorable, curious, compassionate, and collaborative. Every year, this highly qualified group of students includes people with disabilities. W&L's strength depends on the talent, dedication, and diversity that characterize our students, faculty, and staff. Knowing that students with disabilities are integral to the quality of our campus community, our mission is to ensure that students with disabilities are provided with equal access to all college programs, activities and services.
Law School Disability Accommodations
Washington and Lee University School of Law is committed to providing equal access to educational opportunities to qualified students with physical or mental disabilities, in accordance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act.
Employee Disability Accommodations
Washington and Lee University is committed to providing reasonable accommodations to qualified employees with physical or mental disabilities, in accordance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act.
Web Accessibility
This site will help you to understand what the accessibility requirements are for your online resources, how to meet those requirements, and what resources you have at your disposal. As this is a growing project and responsibility, we encourage feedback.
Document Accessibility
Guidelines, recommendation, requirements and tutorials for making accessible documents and forms using Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Adobe PDF and the University's Forms Builder.
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement
© Copyright 2024 Washington & Lee