IF YOU WERE A VICTIM OF A CRIME, WITNESSED, OR HAVE INFORMATION ABOUT A CRIME AND WANT TO MAKE A FORMAL REPORT, DO NOT USE THIS ONLINE REPORT FORM. Please either:
IF YOU WERE A VICTIM OF A CRIME, WITNESSED, OR HAVE INFORMATION ABOUT A CRIME AND WANT TO MAKE AN ANONYMOUS REPORT, USE THE REPORT FORM BELOW. We understand that there are people who have information about a crime or have experienced a crime but don’t want to make a formal report. This online form will allow you to report the information without providing personally identifiable information about yourself. This anonymous report will be forwarded to the Washington and Lee University Office of Public Safety. Please understand that if you do not supply your contact information, Public Safety will be unable to directly assist you or provide you with services. If you report information that leads Public Safety to believe that someone is in imminent danger, Public Safety may try to track this information. Otherwise, this information is used only to provide statistics on campus crimes required to be reported by federal law and to heighten awareness of crimes occurring on campus.
Information submitted through this form outside normal business hours may not be reviewed until the next business day. If this incident requires immediate assistance, please contact Public Safety by calling (540) 458-8999 or using the LiveSafe mobile app to make an anonymous report.
Please check any/all options below that apply:
Any sexual act directed against another person, forcibly and/or against that person's will; or not forcibly or against the person's will where the victim is incapable of giving consent because of his/her youth or because of his/her temporary or permanent mental or physical incapacity, or because of his/her inability to give consent as a result of alcohol or drug use.
Criminal offenses committed against a person or property that are motivated by the offender's preformed negative attitude toward a group of persons based on race, gender, religion, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or ethnicity/national origin.
Information submitted through this form outside normal business hours may not be reviewed until the next business day. If this incident requires immediate assistance, please contact Public Safety by calling (540) 458-8999 or using the LiveSafe mobile app to make an anonymous report.