The Diversity and Inclusion Visit Experience (DIVE) program provides students an opportunity to visit our campus in Lexington, VA. During the three-day event, our attendees — lovingly called DIVErs — will stay in the residence halls with a current student, attend classes and talk with professors, sample the food in our dining hall or grab a sweet treat in town, and explore our student clubs and organizations. DIVErs will also learn how to navigate the college admissions and financial aid processes while experiencing firsthand the opportunities, resources, and support for diverse students on our campus.*
Washington and Lee University recognizes diversity comes in many shapes and sizes. We encourage you to apply if you identify with one or more of the following populations:
*The DIVE program is available to U.S. students only at this point in time.
The deadline to apply for DIVE 2023 has passed. Please add your name to our interest list to get notified when the 2024 DIVE application goes live.


                                Request Information
                            

                                Nominate a Student
                            

Admissions & Aid
Leslie Sparling '22
Admissions Counselor and DIVE Program Coordinator



Nominate
Interested in attending a future DIVE event or know of a student who would be a good candidate? Please complete this short form to share contact information with us.

Explore
Campus

Our small residential campus is home to ~1,850 students from 49 states and 50 countries.
Virtual Tour




In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement
© Copyright 2024 Washington & Lee