New gift establishes the Frances Young Tang ’61 Professorship in Economics and the Frances Young Tang ’61 Asian Studies Program Endowment Fund.
The Skidmore College baseball team scored eight unanswered runs after falling into an early hole and outscored host Williams 15-5 after the second inning to pick up a 16-12 non-league win over the Ephs on Tuesday afternoon.
Before you apply to Skidmore, you’ll need to decide if you want to apply Early Decision
                           I, Early Decision II, or Regular Decision. Then, you'll begin your application directly
                           within the Common Application or the Coalition Application.
*Required supporting materials: school report, two academic teacher recommendations,
                              official transcript
**Skidmore only requires the FAFSA upon enrollment, so the delayed release of the simplified
                           FAFSA will not have a negative impact on our financial aid processes or decision release.
                           Early Decision applicants will be reviewed using information on the CSS Profile. International
                           students may either submit the CSS Profile or complete the International Student Financial
                           Aid application form in their Skidmore Applicant Portal.
Save a copy of our key dates/deadlines and application checklist by filling out the
                                 form below. 

Additional information
Estimate your aid
We offer two tools to help estimate your Skidmore costs and eligibility for need-based
                                       financial aid. Use the Quick Cost Estimator as a tool for general estimates. Use the Net Price Calculator for in-depth estimates. 
Standardized tests
Skidmore has been test-optional since 2016 and we do not require SAT or ACT scores. 
Students may submit their SAT or ACT scores if they feel their test results best represent
                                       their academic potential. We will not make any assumptions as to why some students
                                       choose to submit scores while others do not. All applicants will be given equal consideration
                                       in our holistic evaluation approach.
Self-reported scores
Students who submit standardized testing may self-report their scores as follows at
                                       the time of application:
Students who apply with self-reported scores must submit verified scores upon enrollment
                                       that match self-reported scores.
Art portfolios
Prospective studio art majors are not required to submit a portfolio. If you choose
                                       to submit an art portfolio, please submit electronically by Jan. 15 via Slideroom
                                       as follows:
Applicants should adhere to the following guidelines:
Dance portfolios
Prospective dance majors are not required to submit a portfolio. If you choose to
                                       submit a dance portfolio, please submit electronically by Jan. 15 via Slideroom as
                                       follows:
Applicants should adhere to the following guidelines:
Merit scholarship awards
Skidmore offers two merit awards. You can learn more about each award and how to apply
                                       by visiting Financial Aid.
The London First-Year Experience
Hungry for adventure? Consider applying for the First-Year Experience in London, an
                                                   opportunity to spend your first semester immersed in the historical and cultural riches
                                                   of England's capital city.
LEARN MORE
Once your application is submitted, you'll receive a confirmation email. When your
                           application has been processed, the Office of Admissions will send login credentials
                           for the Skidmore applicant portal which you can use to check on the status of your
                           application and eventually receive your admission decision.
518-580-5570
Office of AdmissionsSkidmore College815 North BroadwaySaratoga Springs, NY 12866
admissions@skidmore.edu
Staff Directory
How to Apply
FINANCIAL AID OFFICE

Campus Map & Directions
Request Information
Visit Skidmore
Copyright © 2024 Skidmore College. All rights reserved.