The W&L Promise guarantees a minimum grant of tuition to any undergraduate student admitted to W&L with a total family income below $150,000 and assets typical for their income. Furthermore, students may be eligible for additional grants to cover room, board, and other educational expenses. Transfer students are also eligible for the W&L Promise.
To determine students' demonstrated need, we assess each family's income and assets with the assistance of the CSS/Financial Aid Profile from the College Board. Applicants who wish to be considered for the W&L Promise or any university-funded need-based assistance at W&L must complete an application for university need-based grant by the deadline associated with their admissions application.


                                Estimate Your Aid
                            

                                Apply for Aid
                            

                                Compare College Costs
                            

Many factors contribute to determining how much aid a student receives. Our Grant Aid by Income table below estimates expected contribution based on household income. The chart below shows, based on the last incoming class, what each family was expected to contribute based on household income.
Keep in mind that these are sample cases, and each student who applies for aid will be reviewed on an individual basis.
Family income is a combination of all income sources as determined by the financial aid evaluation. Family income may include the adjusted gross income (AGI), untaxed income, income imputed from assets, living allowances and relevant employer benefits, and income from a non-custodial parent, if applicable.  When family assets exceed levels typical for their income then portions of the assets may be considered in the evaluation as part of the total income.
Applicants must submit a complete university need-based grant application including the CSS Profile, parent and student federal tax returns, and non-custodial information if applicable. The evaluation of the application will determine if the student will qualify for the W&L Promise.
Students who qualify for the W&L Promise will receive, at minimum, a grant equal to the full cost of tuition at W&L. In addition, families who qualify for the W&L Promise will also receive total financial aid packages consisting of grant and Work-Study awards, which, in combination, with the W&L Promise, will meet their full demonstrated need.
Yes, you will need to submit the complete university need-based grant application each year.
Upon receipt of a complete university need-based grant application from your family, the Office of Financial Aid will review your family's finances and through institutional evaluation determine your estimated family contribution (EFC). Your family's "Full Demonstrated Need" is the difference between the W&L cost of attendance and your institutional EFC.
International currencies and exchange rates can vary greatly from week to week making a family income evaluation inconsistent. However, entering international undergraduate students are eligible to receive the W&L Promise. International students may also be eligible for generous need-based and/or merit awards.
Although loans are not included as part of the university need-based package, they may be offered to families as an option for meeting the estimated family contribution. It is not required that you accept these loans.
Transfer students are eligible to receive the W&L Promise. Applicants must submit the complete need-based application and have total family income less than $150,000.  Please review the complete W&L Promise requirements. Transfer students with income greater than $150,000 may still be eligible for university need-based aid. Please submit the complete need-based application by the March 15 deadline to be considered for any university need-based assistance.
You may qualify for a W&L-specific fee payment code if the CSS Profile fee poses a financial hardship to your family. To apply for a W&L-specific CSS payment code you must follow the steps indicated below. Please do not contact the Office of Financial Aid or Admissions to request a CSS fee waiver.
The only option to receive a fee waiver code is to follow the four steps above. We will be unable to respond to any email requests for a fee waiver. 
Admissions & Aid
Office of Financial Aid
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement
© Copyright 2024 Washington & Lee