New gift establishes the Frances Young Tang ’61 Professorship in Economics and the Frances Young Tang ’61 Asian Studies Program Endowment Fund.
The Skidmore College baseball team scored eight unanswered runs after falling into an early hole and outscored host Williams 15-5 after the second inning to pick up a 16-12 non-league win over the Ephs on Tuesday afternoon.
Skidmore continually works to identify and provide new opportunities to all of our
                           students to meet the demands of our ever-changing world and prepare them to lead lives
                           of consequence. Learn more below about our current funding priorities and how you
                           can be a part of Skidmore’s future.
In line with our mission to educate and support the whole person, the McCaffery-Wagman Tennis and Wellness Center will address the holistic health and wellness of our community. Join us as we work to bring physical and mental health resources together, under one
                                             roof.  Learn more
The Skidmore Fund is one of the few areas that can increase funds to meet the College’s
                                       growing ambitions. Gifts are put to work immediately and touch every aspect of campus
                                       life, such as enhancing students’ educational experiences, supporting world-class
                                       faculty, and providing the College with the resources to fund its most critical priorities.Learn more
With a $5 million one-to-one matching pledge led by Rob Sands ’81, Skidmore has the
                                       opportunity and the challenge to infuse the student experience with a $10 million
                                       investment in experiential learning, professional development, and entrepreneurial
                                       education. Help us meet our goal. Learn more
Financial assistance continues to grow, with three-quarters of applicants requesting
                                       financial aid. While we are committed to meeting the full need of admitted students,
                                       we cannot fund all deserving applicants on our own. Join us in giving talented students
                                       the support they need.  Learn more
The 2022 Campus Master Plan will guide campus planning for the next decade and beyond, informing future strategic
                              planning to steward Skidmore’s resources and best align the College’s priorities and
                              possibilities as we create an ever more successful and vibrant learning experience.
518-580-5600800-584-0115 
518-580-5668 
 
Skidmore CollegeOffice of Advancement815 North Broadway Saratoga Springs, NY 12866-1632 
Email 
advancement@skidmore.edu
Staff Directory
 

Campus Map & Directions
Request Information
Visit Skidmore
Copyright © 2024 Skidmore College. All rights reserved.