By News OfficeMarch 12, 2024
Alexander (Alex) R. Miller, vice president of student life at Denison University, has been named the next vice president of student affairs and dean of students at Washington and Lee University.
Miller, whose appointment is effective July 1, joined Denison as vice president of student life in 2020 and has over 20 years of experience in higher education as a student affairs professional.
He will succeed Sidney Evans, who is retiring from Washington and Lee at the end of the academic year after 24 years, 13 of them as the vice president for student affairs and dean of students.
“Alex cares deeply about students and has a proven track record as a dynamic leader and strategic thinker,” said W&L President Will Dudley. “His extensive experience across all aspects of student affairs and his ability to cultivate relationships with a wide range of stakeholders make him an ideal fit for this critical leadership position. We are delighted to welcome him to the Washington and Lee community.”
“I am honored to join Washington and Lee University as the next Vice President of Student Affairs,” said Miller. “I am looking forward to being part of a dynamic campus community that provides a distinct, world-class, rigorous, and relational student experience and is committed to providing a life-shaping education to tomorrow’s leaders. During my interview process, I was impressed by all the ways members of the community made me feel welcomed. The unwavering commitment to the student experience was palpable in every interaction, and I am excited to partner with the campus community to continue to support the development and success of all W&L students.”
As the vice president of student life at Denison, Miller is responsible for all aspects of the student experience, including health and wellness, campus safety, residence life and dining, campus activities, Greek life, inclusion and belonging, and student conduct. Prior to joining Denison, he served in student affairs positions at Harvard University, University of Chicago, DePaul University, Tulane University, Syracuse University, and Michigan State University.
In addition to a Bachelor of Arts degree from Olivet College, Miller holds a Master of Arts in Student Affairs Administration from Michigan State University and a Doctor of Education in Adult and Higher Education Administration from Northern Illinois University. He has received awards and honors for his work and leadership in student affairs and has presented nationally on topics such as health and wellness, inclusive excellence, and assessment and strategic planning. He is active in several professional, social, civic, and service organizations, including the National Association of Student Personnel Administrators (NASPA), American Fraternity Advisors (AFA), and the National Association of Campus Activities (NACA). He serves on the board of trustees for the Licking Memorial Hospital in Newark, Ohio, and is a proud life member of Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity Incorporated.
One of Miller’s favorite places is New Orleans, Louisiana, which he affectionately refers to as his second home. His fondness for the city stems from his critical role in Tulane University’s rebuilding and reopening efforts after Hurricane Katrina in 2005.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.