On behalf of the Alumni Association and the Alumni Board of Directors, I want to share some of the latest news from W&L.
At the top of everyone's mind is the alumni trustee election process. The process recently closed with just over 4,600 alumni votes cast. We congratulate Lee Hollis, Class of 1986, on his election and thank all alumni for participating. Our work developing the ballot illustrated that W&L is fortunate to have so many talented graduates. In the February edition of, Generally Speaking, I shared an inside look on the trustee selection process and how the Alumni Board arrived at the talented and diverse three-person slate. A description of the process used by the Alumni Board was shared in early fall and provides an overview of the new process used for the selection of the new "alumni trustee," who will serve just like other current trustees.
While the trustee selection process has been front and center, there are other highlights at our university.
Before I close, I would be remiss if I did not acknowledge Beau Dudley ('74, '79L) for his tremendous service and commitment to W&L. In February, the university announced Beau's retirement as executive director of Alumni Engagement, effective June 30, 2022. Fortunately, he will begin a new role as senior advisor to the vice president of the University Advancement. In his 16 years at the helm of Alumni Engagement, Beau has been a guiding force for alumni boards. He is a superb advocate by connecting and engaging with alumni all over the country, fostering a sense of excitement and dedication to the school. The Alumni Board joins me in thanking him for his support of W&L and its alumni and wishing him every success in the new position.
Along with the rest of the Alumni Board, it's an honor and a privilege to represent the W&L alumni family in this capacity. We hope to see you on campus or at a local chapter event soon.
Stay healthy!
Nelson Bunn '08Alumni Association President
Alumni
Office of Alumni Engagement
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement
© Copyright 2024 Washington & Lee