Follow these online sources for a varied perspective of life on campus and in our alumni communities around the country.



The Columns
W&L's official feature story platform highlights news, profiles, accolades and more on a daily basis.



The W&L Magazine
Published three times a year, "W&L" is the magazine for alumni, family and friends of the university.



Generally Speaking
Our monthly e-newsletter for alumni, family and friends offers news from the university, upcoming events and alumni profiles.



"It's All Here" Events Digest
Our monthly email digest of events and happenings to help you stay engaged with W&L.



Alumni Board Updates
A message from the Alumni Association President.



Social Media
Follow official channels from @wlualumni, @wlunews, and @wlulex on all the major social media platforms.



"After Class" Podcast
W&L After Class, the Lifelong Learning podcast featuring faculty experts you know and need to know.
Alumni
Office of Alumni Engagement

Top Stories
from the Hill

Recent news and updates of primary interest to W&L alumni.
All News



Phillip Sampson Jr. ’90 and William Toles ’92, ’95L Named Fellows of the American College of Trial Lawyers
The College is one of the premier legal associations in North America.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





W&L Celebrates Return of Five-Star Generals to Campus
Alumni enjoyed one another's company and a variety of weekend festivities.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Honoring a Mentor’s Legacy
Dyson Foundation endows director position at the DeLaney Center.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





W&L After Class Podcast Begins its Fifth Season
“W&L After Class,” now entering its fifth season, invites listeners to join conversations with W&L’s expert faculty about their teaching, research and passion projects.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Love Generally
W&L holds a special place in the hearts of its alumni.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Alumni and Students Connect Through Choreography
The W&L Repertory Dance Company’s alumni-student dance performance in New York City’s Center for Performance Research returned after a four-year hiatus.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





W&L a Top Producer of Fulbright U.S. Students for Sixth Straight Year
Washington and Lee was ranked third among the baccalaureate institutions recognized by the Fulbright Program.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Life After Fulbright
W&L alumni’s Fulbright experiences expand their worldviews and shape their post-graduate careers.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Wangdali C. “Wali” Bacdayan ’92 Sworn in as Rector of Washington and Lee University
The board elected Bacdayan as the university’s 32nd rector during its October 2023 meeting.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Jack Sharman ’83, P’20 ’22 to Join W&L Board of Trustees
Sharman will be sworn in at the board’s spring meeting.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





W&L Welcomes Young Alumni to Campus
Alumni enjoyed one another's company and a variety of reunion festivities honoring the classes of 2013 and 2018.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Wangdali C. “Wali” Bacdayan ’92 Named Next Rector of Washington and Lee
Wangdali C. "Wali" Bacdayan '92, a current trustee of Washington and Lee University, will be the next rector of W&L’s Board of Trustees. The board unanimously elected Bacdayan as the university's 32nd rector during its meeting in Lexington on Oct. 21, 2023. He will assume his duties at the conclusion of the February 2024 meeting, succeeding Michael R. McAlevey '86, who has been rector since 2020.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            


In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement
© Copyright 2024 Washington & Lee