Alumni Engagement's mission is to connect alumni with each other, with W&L, and to provide interesting avenues for lifelong learning.


                                Colonnade Connections
                            

                                Chapter Events Calendar
                            

                                Reunions: On Campus
                            



                                Admissions Tours
                            

                                Changes to University Chapel
                            

                                Board of Trustees' June 2021 Decisions
                            

Alumni
Office of Alumni Engagement



On Campus Or In Your Hometown
Alumni Engagement creates memorable reunions and destination events on campus and around the country.
Office of Lifelong Learning
The best way to celebrate W&L's enduring commitment to lifelong learning is by experiencing it personally. Share in the life of the University with an educational adventure on campus, around the world or online.






Colonnade Connections
From career networking to finding long-lost friends, Colonnade Connections is the university's online database.

Alumni
Engagement

The staff of the Office of Alumni Engagement provides programming and support for W&L alumni.
Executive Director of Alumni and Career ServicesHotchkiss Alumni House


P:
540-458-8593


E:
jensenj@wlu.edu


John was appointed executive director of Alumni and Career Services at Washington and Lee University in July 2022. In this role, he leads a combined team consisting of the offices of Alumni Engagement, Career and Professional Development, and Lifelong Learning. Working together, his team engages and supports students, alumni and parents throughout their W&L experience, from the first year on campus to graduation and beyond.

Hotchkiss Alumni House
John was appointed executive director of Alumni and Career Services at Washington and Lee University in July 2022. In this role, he leads a combined team consisting of the offices of Alumni Engagement, Career and Professional Development, and Lifelong Learning. Working together, his team engages and supports students, alumni and parents throughout their W&L experience, from the first year on campus to graduation and beyond.
Director of Alumni Chapter Programs
Director of Alumni Reunions and Events
Assistant Director of Alumni Affinity Programs
Assistant Director of Alumni Chapter Programs
Alumni Engagement Operations Coordinator
Director of Lifelong Learning Programs
Gary joined the W&L community in 2023. Previously, he was an associate provost at Dickinson College, where he provided leadership for the Center for Civic Learning & Action and the Clarke Forum for Contemporary Issues. His interdisciplinary teaching and research are grounded in the fields of nonprofit studies and public administration, and his recent projects have considered civic infrastructure, systems thinking, and community resilience. He is an expert on experiential learning pedagogy and community-engaged scholarship. Kirk holds a Ph.D. in environmental design and planning from Virginia Tech and a B.A. in ecology from New College.
Associate Director of Lifelong Learning; Host, Executive Producer for W&L After Class Podcast
Ruth joined Washington and Lee’s Office of Lifelong Learning in April 2019. Prior to this position, she managed the Class Secretary Program for University Development. She has held a number of marketing and managerial positions in the publishing and graphic arts industries. 
Lifelong Learning Program Coordinator
Lisa joined the Office of Lifelong Learning in August, 2021. She began her career at W&L as the Recruitment Coordinator in the Office of Career Strategy at the Law School. Prior to her arrival at W&L in 2018, she worked in varied capacities in the field of education for more than twenty years. These experiences included teaching ESL for Rockbridge County Public Schools, Spanish at Waddell Elementary School, and English as a Second Language at Instituto Tecnológico in Chetumal, Mexico. Lisa also spent many years as the Director of a local preschool. She earned her M.Ed. from Wilmington University in 1996.
Director of Constituent Strategy
Assistant Director of Alumni and Career Services Marketing – Programs Lead
Assistant Director of Alumni and Career Services Marketing – Social Media Lead
Office Manager




Alumni
in the News

W&L alumni are leaders in their professions and communities. Read on to see who is making news today.
All News



Wangdali C. “Wali” Bacdayan ’92 Sworn in as Rector of Washington and Lee University
The board elected Bacdayan as the university’s 32nd rector during its October 2023 meeting.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Chronicles: Racing Into History
A statue of Secretariat made a stop in Lexington last spring, as the man whose dream produced the Virginia-born racehorse was a W&L alumnus and trustee emeritus.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Friends Without Borders
Lifelong friends Seng-Kah “Henry” Baey ’83 and Dan Einstein ’83 reflect on their time at W&L.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Empathy & Compassion
In May, Mary Hipp ’90 said being a member of the second class of women undergraduates at W&L taught her a lot— although she didn’t realize it at the time.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





From Big Law to Foreign Assets
Chrishon McManus ’14L—attorney and competitive swimmer—radiates calm when it counts.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





For Ross Draber ’10, people come first
The United Bank senior executive engages with the W&L community through student recruitment and event participation.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Rachel Adams-Heard ’16 wins prestigious business journalism award
The Bloomberg reporter was recognized for her work on investigative podcast “In Trust.”


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Catching up with Laura Lemon ’16
W&L’s campus culture — from small classes to the Speaking Tradition — gave Lemon the communication skills and confidence to succeed.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Catching up with Mike Weaver ’20
Weaver’s advice for current students: Take advantage of every opportunity and embrace respectful debate.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Catching up with Sarah Tilbor ’08
For Tilbor, W&L instilled a healthy curiosity and a lifelong love of learning.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Catching up with Kathryn Young ’19
Young learned the critical skills to excel at her job from the veteran journalists in Reid Hall.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Catching up with Wes Haydon ’09
Haydon credits the W&L community for inspiring him and guiding him toward success.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            


In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement
© Copyright 2024 Washington & Lee