By Julie ClineJune 23, 2016
Registration is now open to Washington and Lee alumni for the 2016 Entrepreneurship Summit, hosted by the Williams School’s Connolly Center for Entrepreneurship. The Summit will take place Sept. 23–24 and is open to all alumni, students and friends of the university. Attending the Summit is free but all attendees must register by Sept. 16.
Last fall, over 120 alumni attended W&L’s Entrepreneurship Summit. Registration includes breakfast and lunch on both Friday and Saturday as well as two full days of programming. A schedule of events is available online, with more details to be released throughout the summer. On Friday night, registrants will attend a networking reception before dinner in town; on Saturday night, the Summit will conclude with a formal dinner program.
One of the most popular portions of the program has become the Alumni Pitch Session. Alumni entrepreneurs who are looking for investors and other forms of support pitch their start-ups and business ideas to their classmates and current students. A separate application to participate in the session is required and is available online. The deadline to apply is Aug. 31.
Washington and Lee students attend the majority of the Entrepreneurship Summit’s programming. In 2015, 550 students participated in some portion of the Summit. While on campus, alumni with interest in recruiting or mentoring W&L students are invited to conduct mock interviews as well as regular internship and job interviews. Student registration information will be available online later this summer.
The Williams School has secured a block of hotel rooms at the Hampton Inn Lexington-Historic District. Rooms at the Hampton Inn are $130 per night plus tax. To make a reservation, call (540) 463-2223 and refer to the ‘Entrepreneurial Summit’ by Aug. 23.
Washington and Lee University’s Entrepreneurship Summit was launched in 2012 by Jeffrey Shay, the Johnson Professor of Entrepreneurship and Leadership. For more information about the Summit, please visit http://entrepreneurship.wlu.edu or contact Shay at shayj@wlu.edu.