Since 2003, the Alumni Association Board has regularly submitted a three-person slate to the Board of Trustees, from which they chose one person to become a Trustee. In 2019, the Trustees asked that the Alumni Association revise the process in order to make alumni better aware of and more directly involved in the election. 2023–2024 is the second implementation of this alumni election process.

Alumni Volunteers
Office of Alumni Engagement

Meet the
Committee

Members of the Alumni Board’s Trustee Election Committee
Alumni Association President
Atlanta, GA
Alumni Association Vice President
Birmingham, AL
Charlotte, NC
Winnetka, IL
Atlanta, GA
Kensington, MD
Mountain Brook, AL
Executive Director of Alumni and Career ServicesHotchkiss Alumni House


P:
540-458-8593


E:
jensenj@wlu.edu


John was appointed executive director of Alumni and Career Services at Washington and Lee University in July 2022. In this role, he leads a combined team consisting of the offices of Alumni Engagement, Career and Professional Development, and Lifelong Learning. Working together, his team engages and supports students, alumni and parents throughout their W&L experience, from the first year on campus to graduation and beyond.

Hotchkiss Alumni House
John was appointed executive director of Alumni and Career Services at Washington and Lee University in July 2022. In this role, he leads a combined team consisting of the offices of Alumni Engagement, Career and Professional Development, and Lifelong Learning. Working together, his team engages and supports students, alumni and parents throughout their W&L experience, from the first year on campus to graduation and beyond.
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement
© Copyright 2024 Washington & Lee