By Law CommunicationsAugust 16, 2022
Anika Maan ’24L is the inaugural recipient of the James Tyler Dickovick Internship in International Affairs, Global Political Economy, and the Public Interest.
Maan received support for her summer placement with the UN Office of Drugs and Crime in Suva, Fiji. During her internship, she worked with Pacific island governments, prosecutors, NGOs, youth, ambassadors, foreign ministers, and regional advisors to analyze corruption and prosecutorial capacity, exploring the politics, challenges, and collaboration it takes to run a legal system.
“The Pacific islands are home to a diverse range of cultures and landscapes and are pivotal intersections of traditional and Western development,” said Maan. “Interning at the UNODC has given me insight into this complicated dynamic and strengthened my confidence to work in development spaces in even the world’s most remote corners.”
The endowment that helped fund Maan’s internship was established by members of the Washington and Lee community in memory of Grigsby Term Professor of Politics J. Tyler Dickovick, who passed away in 2019 after battling Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). The fund provides income to support a summer international internship for a W&L student who is interested in intellectual exploration and community service in a developing nation.
“Being afforded the opportunity to intern for the UN in Fiji has been instrumental in providing the postgraduate career clarity I’ve been looking for,” said Maan. “I am exceedingly grateful to the James Tyler Dickovick Internship for affording me the opportunity to contribute towards a small slice of meaningful change and development in the Pacific region.”
Maan grew up in Loudoun County, Virginia, and received a Bachelor of Science from George Mason University. During her first year at W&L Law, Maan served as the 1L Representative for the International Law Society, competed on the BLSA Mock Trial Team, and was involved with APALSA, WLSO, BLSA, OutLaw, the Antitrust Consumer Law Society, and the Student Library Advisory Committee.
If you know a W&L  member who has done great, accolade-worthy things, tell us about them! Nominate them for an accolade.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.