By Julie ClineDecember 5, 2013

Washington and Lee University’s annual Candlelight Service featuring the W&L University Singers took place Thursday, Dec. 5, at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
The service was broadcast live online. 
The “Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols,” broadcast each year from King’s College Chapel, University of Cambridge, and widely used in England, the United States and around the world, is an ancient form for corporate worship at the Christmas season. The prayers, lessons and music tell the story of sacred history from the Creation to the Incarnation.
In 1880, E.W. Benson, later the Archbishop of Canterbury, drew up a service of lessons and carols for use on Christmas Eve in the wooden shed which served as his cathedral. In 1918 this service was adapted for use in the chapel of King’s College, Cambridge. In the early 1930s, the BBC began broadcasting the service on overseas programming, and it is estimated that there are millions of listeners worldwide.
The service has been held for many years in Lexington and was held at Robert E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church during the earlier years. The W&L Men’s Glee Club participated in the service held at the church, but when the Candlelight Service was moved to Lee Chapel in the early 1990s, the newly founded W&L Chamber Singers became the featured choir.
Music for the traditional service was provided by the University Singers, the evolution of the Chamber Singers, and conducted by Shane M. Lynch, director of choral activities at W&L. The Singer’s anthems featured a wide variety of music, from Robert Shaw’s wonderful version of the Spanish carol Hacia Belén and Tomás Luis de Victoria’s classic O Magnum Mysterium to modern and beautiful masterpieces like Dan Forrest’s Entreat Me Not to Leave You and the Kyrie from Frank Martin’s Messe für zwei vierstimmige Chöre.
Timothy Gaylard, professor of music, was the organist for the service, leading the familiar hymns and carols and rounding out the evening’s experience with an organ prelude and postlude.
Nine members of the Washington and Lee University community were chosen to read the lessons.  William C. Datz, Catholic Campus Minister at St. Patrick’s and former coordinator of Religious Life at W&L, presided over the service.