Mileage | Transportation
Lexington, Buena Vista, and Rockbridge County is within a day's drive of much of the East Coast of the United States. Located in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia, our destination is tucked between the Blue Ridge and Allegheny Mountains, welcoming Appalachian Trail hikers and other outdoor explorers. 
Farm-fresh wares make their way to our restaurant tables and farmers markets thanks to the hardworking producers of the Valley. It is easy to find a meal in Lexington that rivals any available in Washington, DC or New York City, thanks to our skilled chefs and dedicated restaurant owners.
"Food and beverage" doesn't apply to restaurants exclusively. In Natural Bridge, craft beer is an award-winning business with an incredible view. In Raphine, bottles of Virginia wine are decorated with medals from competitions near and far. Even our local coffee roaster has garnered critical acclaim. 
Shopping in downtown Lexington and Buena Vista is a treat. Our stores are independently and locally owned by those who are passionate about their chosen products. Those specializing in apparel shop the world to bring fine threads to our American Main Street, while those catering to a niche audience are thorough in their pursuits to discover and deliver the most appealing products for their shelves.
A day trip from DC (or many other destinations) is easy, and we are the halfway point between many locations on the East coast! Getting to Lexington, VA is easy—leave the driving to someone else with one of the transportation options below, or drive yourself. We're easy to reach but hard to leave.
Distances from Common Points of Origin:
Airports
Amtrak Stations
Bus Lines
Rental Cars, Car Services & Public Transportation
Parking
Buena Vista and LexingtonThere is ample free street parking and public parking lots. 
LexingtonDowntown street and lot parking signs indicate time limits—10 minutes, 2 hours, 3 hours, etc. Additional parking options include the Rockbridge County Courthouse parking deck. Visitors may park their vehicles in the Lexington Visitor Center parking lot during the day, however there is no overnight parking permitted in the visitor center lot or the courthouse parking deck. 
Download Parking Guide
Electric Car Charging Stations 
City of Buena Vista, Magnolia Ave. (parking lot near the public library, adjacent to Coiner Country Store)(4) Level 2 Greenspot stations (240v)
Quaker Steak & Lube, 30 Commerce Park Road, Raphine(4) 50kW stations
Hampton Inn Col Alto, 401 E. Nelson Street, Lexington(1) Chademo station and (1) J1772 Combo station
The Gin Hotel, 30 S. Main Street, Lexington(1) Level 2 SEMA J1772 station
Brierley Hill Bed & Breakfast, 985 Borden Road, Lexington(1) Level 2 Tesla station
Lexington Supercharger, 880 N. Lee Highway, Lexington
(immediately adjacent to Holiday Inn Express, Best Western Inn Lexington Lodge, and Applebee's)(6) Level 3 Tesla stations (150kW)
Comfort Inn Virginia Horse Center, 62 Comfort Way, Lexington(3) Level 2 Tesla stations and (3) J1772 stations
Best Western Plus Inn at Hunt Ridge, 25 Willow Springs Road, Lexington(3) Level 2 Tesla stations and (3) J1772 stations
Steeles Tavern Manor,
8400 N. Lee Highway, Raphine(1) Level 2 Tesla station and (1) J1772 station
Sugar Tree Inn, 145 Lodge Trail, Vesuvius(1) Level 2 Tesla station and (1) J1772 station
From legendary attractions to charming Main Street shops, memorable dining to exploring the great outdoors, we’re[…]
Make the most of a three-day weekend by visiting Rockbridge County, Virginia. More than 30 attractions are located[…]
Whether you’re looking for a weekend escape or a week-long adventure, your WanderLOVE “SMALL TOWNS, BIG BACKYARD” road[…]