Our campus is home to an authentic Japanese Tea Room. This piece of art is open for viewing, as well as public tea demonstrations throughout the year.
This architectural treasure was built on campus in the Watson Pavilion, where it serves as a classroom laboratory for the study of Chanoyu (茶の湯), meaning the Way of Tea, and a center for cultural activities relating to the arts of Japan. The tea room was given the name named Senshin'an (洗心庵), meaning "Clearing-the-Mind Abode", by Sen Genshitsu, 15th-generation Grand Master of the Urasenke Tradition of Tea.
This piece of art and cultural lab is used as a classroom as well as an outreach tool to show a small piece of Japanese culture to the campus, city, and surrounding community. In addition to class, thematic ceremonies, and public demonstrations, the tea room can also be reserved for private ceremonies. For more information about scheduling a demonstration, please contact Professor Janet Ikeda.
For the hours of the Watson Pavilion, contact the Reeves Center 540-458-8034.
Arts
Senshin'an Tea Room
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement
© Copyright 2024 Washington & Lee