When you enroll at W&L, you join a vibrant, welcoming community. You and your peers will arrive with life experiences from many different places, and together, you will make W&L your own.
Our campus is at the center of a small, vibrant, two-college town that offers students abundant opportunities to become involved in the community and travel around the world. Students can take part in one of more than 100 clubs and organizations, and have access to abundant resources to develop programming suited to their interests.
Campus Life



Residential Campus
As a residential campus, students at W&L have the benefit of getting to know each other and building a strong network of friends from their very first day.
People You Meet Along the Way
The people you meet at college are as important as the location. At W&L, you will be part of a welcoming community of individuals who have their own interests and dreams, and share core values of honor, integrity and civility.






Taking Care in Daily Life
Dining venues offer fresh, local and healthy options and wellness programs help students maintain healthy lifestyles. W&L provides indoor and outdoor facilities, including fitness centers, an indoor pool, and group exercise.
Getting to Know Each Other
Leading Edge programming at W&L allows first-year students to bond. Before they ever step into the classroom, they'll participate in memorable and meaningful experiences.



Virtual Tour
On and off campus, there is plenty to do here.


                                Visit
                            

                                Request More Information
                            

                                How to Apply
                            




Where You Will Live
Our vibrant town and idyllic setting are two things our students come to love best about W&L. Affectionately dubbed “Lex Vegas” by students and locals, Lexington is frequently listed among the mid-Atlantic’s best small towns.
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement
© Copyright 2024 Washington & Lee