The Office of Career and Professional Development (CPD) supports ALL W&L students. These resources explore some of the unique issues diverse students may encounter in the job search process. We offer career advice, job search resources, on- and off-campus resources, and FAQs. While all CPD Advisors can assist you, Lorri Olan P’17, Senior Associate Director - Diversity Initiatives Lead, serves on the Office of Inclusion and Engagement Advisory Board and is Faculty Advisor to the Comunidad Latina Estudiantil (CLE).
 CPD strives to make our services welcoming and accessible to people of all backgrounds. If you identify an area of our work that you believe misses a critical perspective or employs language that needs improvement, please contact careers@wlu.edu. We welcome your feedback.

CPD Canvas Coursestay in the know about resources and eventsSign-Up
The Class of 1994 Office of Inclusion and Engagementbe an engaged citizen of a global and diverse communityEvents and Resources


 



Resources for International Students






Resources for LGBTQ+ Students






Resources for Multi-ethnic Students






Resources for Students with Disabilities






Resources for Women







CPD Canvas Coursestay in the know about resources and eventsSign-Up
The Class of 1994 Office of Inclusion and Engagementbe an engaged citizen of a global and diverse communityEvents and Resources


 careers@wlu.edu540-458-8595
Office Hours:Monday - Friday, 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
Follow Us on Instagram
Office Location:Elrod Commons 301Lexington, VA 24450
Mailing Address:Elrod Commons 301204 West Washington StreetLexington, VA 24450
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement