by W&L News OfficeJune 28, 2023
What was your major at W&L, and how does it apply to your career now? 
I was a business administration major, and that experience and knowledge has helped me in many ways. I believe that my major provided a great understanding of how businesses function and make decisions. Having that experience has given me an advantage as a seller working with businesses in various industries and verticals.
What was your first job after graduation?
My first job after graduation was with an executive recruiting firm in Denver. I now work at NetApp as an account manager for the Rocky Mountains.
How did W&L prepare you for your career?
W&L taught me to think critically and solve problems in many different contexts. These skills are invaluable in the workplace, relationships and life in general.
What are some of your major or memorable career milestones?
After putting in my time on our presales team to learn the business, being promoted to an account manager position supporting local businesses was a huge milestone. I know there will be more milestones to come.
Who or what has most inspired you along the way? (Staff, faculty, classmates, internships, alumni, etc.)
Professors and staff at W&L are just the best. They go above and beyond their job descriptions as teachers, offering counsel and wisdom that they picked up in their own life experiences. I distinctly recall conversations with Dean John Jensen, as well as professors Jeff Schatten, Bob Ballenger and Jeff Shay that have shaped many of my life choices after W&L. In addition, coaches Gene McCabe, Eric Koch and Chuck O’Connell inspired me to work hard, to care for and serve others, and to never give up.
What do you miss most about your time at W&L?
The people. The folks that I had the chance to meet in Lexington are all world class. Luckily, with hard work, those relationships continue to blossom, even after graduation.
What was the one class you most enjoyed outside of your major, and why?
The History of Latin America (pre and post colonialism). I’ve always loved history — and Professor Gildner made it come to life.
What is the one class or professor you wish you could return to campus and take a class with now?
If I could retake Organizational Behavior with Professor Jeff Schatten 20 times, I would.
What is one thing on your W&L bucket list that you would still like to accomplish?
Nothing — I left it all on the field!
What advice would you give to next year’s graduating class?
Enjoy every moment and never turn down an opportunity. In addition, embrace respectful debate and always have an open mind to what others think. You will be surprised at what you learn if you are a good listener.
Tell a favorite memory in five sentences or less.
There are so many to choose from, but my favorite is winning the ODAC championship on Wilson Field against Lynchburg in the pouring rain. We did not know at the time that it would be our last chance due to COVID cutting the next season short. Thank you, John Broderick, for scoring the winning goal with three seconds left.
If you know any W&L alumni who would be great profile subjects, tell us about them! Nominate them for a web profile.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.