The Washington and Lee University Clothes Closet is an initiative that is sponsored and supported by the Division of Student Affairs.
The Division of Student Affairs identified a need for a Clothes Closet at W&L that aims to provide students access to free professional and casual attire to prepare them for interviews, career fairs, presentations or networking events and, ultimately, the workplace and even every day use. We believe that proper clothing can open the door to a better future providing the confidence needed to ace a job interview, encourage and project a healthy self-image or stay safe from inclement weather. Students are not required to return the clothing; it can be kept for the benefit of their future.
The Clothes Closet aims to:
Have questions about the Clothes Closet? Need more information about how to partake of the closet or to donate items or time? Please contact:

Fiorela Giraldo Prado de Lewisfgiraldopradodelewis@wlu.edu540-458-4841
Donations of clothes and funds for the purchase of quality clothes items are most welcome. The Clothes Closet is made possible through the Division of Student Affairs and the generous support of faculty, staff, alumni, students, and friends.
Suggested Professional and Casual Attire:
Drop-Off HoursMonday - Friday 8:30 am to 5:00 pm
Location:Elrod Commons #222
Make a Financial Contribution
 Contact OIE
The Clothes Closet is located at Elrod Commons #222. Appointments need to be made with Fiorela Giraldo Prado de Lewis before using.

In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement