New gift establishes the Frances Young Tang ’61 Professorship in Economics and the Frances Young Tang ’61 Asian Studies Program Endowment Fund.
The Skidmore College baseball team scored eight unanswered runs after falling into an early hole and outscored host Williams 15-5 after the second inning to pick up a 16-12 non-league win over the Ephs on Tuesday afternoon.
See how Skidmore alumni are putting creative thought to work in their fields, their passions and the world in which we live.
Minor: Art (Studio)
The rules of the media industry are ever-changing. It's likely your future job does not exist yet. Embrace disruption and plan for flexibility in response to the unexpected. When making career decisions, think about your next jump. Put yourself in situations that lead to many alternative futures.
Major: Political Science, Spanish
These days, journalists have to both multimedia and multi-platform reporters. You have to write well and on deadline, capture and edit short videos, record and edit sound, and take arresting images of your subjects. That's it, just do it. 
Major: Management and Business, Economics
Business in general is survival of the fittest. You have got to be creative to come up with different ways of doing something, or a new product, or try to figure out how to make your product differentiated.
Major: EnglishMinor: Music
I don't like sitting around talking about gear or plug-ins. For me, mastering engineering is all about listening! It is about making decisions and having confidence in the creative direction that you have chosen. So be a good listener.
Major: Environmental Studies and Sciences, Spanish
Internships are a great way to learn about specific jobs and organizations, but also a good way to build your credentials and network. An internship can be an entry point to a great and competitive company or a launching pad to your dream job.
Major: Psychology
Don't worry if you don't feel like you know what you want to do right away, or even for a long time -- try different things until you find something that energizes you. Take your time, I certainly took mine. More important than deciding quickly on a career is deciding well, and a willingness to repeat the process when, inevitably, you grow and change and your interests and needs change with you. 
Major: Art (Studio)
Artists play a critical role in communicating climate change, arguably the most important challenge we face as a global community. I have dedicated my career to translating and illuminating scientists' warnings and statistics into an accessible medium: a level that is perhaps deeper than scientific facts can penetrate.
Major: FrenchMinor: International Affairs
Never take no for an answer. Doors will close in your face, but look for the unconventional route. Don't be afraid to make mistakes; learn from them and move on. Languages made my career. If I did not speak Arabic, I would not have gotten as far as I did or as quickly.
Major: PsychologyMinor: Art (Studio)
My time at Skidmore was formative, as I was encouraged to explore both of my interests: science and art. For me, one informs the other. I think it makes for better doctors to have a humanities background.
Major: Art HistoryMinor: Business
Take the pressure off of figuring out what your life's purpose is and just start trying new things that might make you happy. I was able to learn how to blog, figure out how to sell a product, foster my love of making things with my hands, and ultimately, start my company, without the pressure of "being in the real world" yet. 
Major: Mathematics, Management and Business
Don't be afraid of unconventional career paths. Just because most of your class, friends or family work in a certain industry does not mean you have to. Combining your interests is easier than you might think. If you work hard and put yourself out there, you'll meet the right people to help you along the way.
Major: Art HistoryMinor: French
“You don’t have to decide what you’re going to be. It’s about the quality of your life. You have to love what you do, and you have to make some decisions and figure it out. Everyone has the same fears. Do what you’re good at and what you enjoy.”
Major: English, History
Do your best to get work experience as early and often as possible. Do not worry too much about whether or not your first job is directly related to what you want to do further down the line, especially if you are not even sure what that is yet. A seemingly low-level position can have a lot of room for growth and new experiences. 
Skidmore's Career Development Center is committed to supporting all students and alumni
                              through the creative process of integrating their liberal arts education and experiences
                              into a satisfying career.

Campus Map & Directions
Request Information
Visit Skidmore
Copyright © 2024 Skidmore College. All rights reserved.