Happy Spring! We're so excited for the warmth the new season brings, and with it, these awesome events. They're perfect reasons for a long weekend in Lexington, Buena Vista, and Rockbridge County. Discover all the things to do here in our "Small Towns, Big Backyard."
International Dark Sky Week is April 2-8. Come celebrate with us at Natural Bridge State Park, an International Dark Sky Park. Of note are April 8, the 2024 Solar Eclipse Viewing, and April 13 for Stargazing Under a New Moon.
The Bull & Oyster Festival is back! April 13 from 1 p.m. until 5 p.m. at the Virginia Horse Center, there will be fresh oysters prepared a multitude of ways, BBQ, and bluegrass, and it's all for a great cause! 
First Fridays in Downtown Lexington (April 5) is a family-friendly arts event. Peruse our galleries, meet artists at opening receptions, enjoy craft cocktails at TAPS or Rocca, enjoy the piano at Haywood's, or relish a farm-to-table dinner at one of our downtown restaurants.
Feeling artsy yourself? Consider joining in the Plein Air Watercolor Painting at Boxerwood Nature Center & Woodland Garden on April 21 at 1 PM. Paint, palettes, and paper are provided. The workshop is free.
Don't forget there are spaces to get hands-on in Lexington and Buena Vista:
At Lenfest Center for the Arts this month:

Travelers of the Shenandoah Beerwerks Trail will find their way to Great Valley Farm Brewery and Winery in Natural Bridge, Rockbridge Vineyard & Brewery (RVB) in Raphine, and Heliotrope Brewery and Devils Backbone Outpost Tap Room & Kitchen (DBO) in Lexington. 
For wine, add in Ecco Adesso Vineyards, Lexington Valley Vineyard, and Jump Mountain Vineyard. Don't forget the excellent cider at Halycon Days Cider Co., too!

Try the Kids Fishing Day at Natural Bridge State Park on April 6. From 7 a.m. to noon kids aged 12 and younger can fish Cedar Creek for free. Adults should plan to pay the regular state park admission and are not permitted to fish. All guests must bring their own pole, bait, and gear. Creel limit is six. 

Don't miss the Downtown Lexington Spring Sidewalk Sale April 26 through 28! Our retailers unveil their best spring deals and you win!
Plan ahead for more Spring Experiences and Spring Adventures in Lexington, Buena Vista, and Rockbridge County.

Order your Easter dinner for curbside pick-up or make a reservation to eat downtown. Lexington also has great Easter[…]
Visit during the spring season to enjoy special outdoor events and bask in the warmth! New buds and blooms welcome you[…]
For a hands-on culinary adventure, visit a local farm in Rockbridge County. Bite into a juicy pear. Pick your own[…]