The natural outdoor setting of today's Lime Kiln Theater - once an abandoned 19th century lime quarry and kiln - is a family-friendly favorite place for locals and a draw for visitors. The evenings are magical as lights, discreetly tucked amid the foliage, accentuate the life-giving entertainment on stage, be it homegrown bluegrass ensembles, national legends, or a theatre troupe touring the coast.
2024 SEASON
1. Tailgate. Who says tailgating is only for football? Create a locally-sourced spread and have a blast!2. BYOC. Bring your own chair for an intimate experience away from those in the permanent seats.3. Snacks & Drinks. Food trucks are on-site, and beer and wine are available for purchase.
Dining
Choose a downtown Lexington restaurant to enjoy before the show. Small plates and cocktails are a treat at TAPS while farm-fresh entrees will fill you for the evening at places like Bistro on Main, Haywood's, or ZUNZUN. For international cuisine, look up Sushi Matsumoto, Napa Thai, or Asian Garden. Try a Lexington favorite - the wafflewich - at Brew Ridge Taps, and choose from hundreds of bottles of beer on the wall as well.
Pre-Concert Activities
Explore downtown Lexington with a narrated carriage tour by Lexington Carriage Company. It's a great way to see our architecture and hear a bit of our history at a leisurely pace. If you prefer to walk, stop by the Visitor Center at 106 E. Washington Street to pick up a walking tour map. Specifically, inquire about the Righteous & Rascals of Rockbridge Trail.
We're sure you'll find something great for yourself or for a friend or loved one when shopping our independently owned stores and galleries.
Perhaps you've driven all day and simply want a breath of fresh air. If so, head to the Chessie Trail just off Old Buena Vista Road along the Maury River. Take a stroll along the old rail bed to enjoy the sights and sounds of our other residents. Boxerwood Gardens & Nature Center is another excellent place to clear your head and walk a lovely nature trail.
Twenty minutes south of downtown Lexington is the iconic Natural Bridge, the centerpiece of Natural Bridge State Park. Allow a couple of hours to enjoy Cedar Creek Trail and the views of the bridge, or try your hand at the new Thistle Ridge Disc Golf Course.
Post-Concert Activities
A late dinner is not out of the question in downtown Lexington, and there's a good chance you'll find more live entertainment at Brew Ridge Taps, The Palms, or Salerno's Wood Fired Pizza & Tap House.
The day after a show is a great time to explore more of Rockbridge County. Head north to visit Rockbridge Vineyard, Wade's Mill, McCormick Farm, and the villages of Brownsburg and Fairfield. 
Scenic drives include the Blue Ridge Parkway by way of Buena Vista, an Appalachian Trail Community, as well as Routes 39 and 252.
For more ideas and ways to play, see our related content below.

Tickets from Lime Kiln's shows don't typically hang around. At-the-door is not much of a thing with this venue. BUY THEM NOW
You don't need to travel far after the show for a comfortable night of rest. In downtown you can choose from The Gin Hotel, The Georges, Hampton Inn Col Alto, and a variety of bed and breakfasts. Trusted national hotel brands are less than 10 minutes away as well.
If your inquiring mind is itching with a question about Lime Kiln specifically, please see Lime Kiln's FAQs for help.
Make the most of a three-day weekend by visiting Rockbridge County, Virginia. More than 30 attractions are located[…]
Whether you’re looking for a weekend escape or a week-long adventure, your WanderLOVE “SMALL TOWNS, BIG BACKYARD” road[…]
Park your car and stroll downtown Lexington and Buena Vista, enjoying mountain views, quaint architecture, legendary[…]