Due to site preparation work for the new Lindley Center for Student Wellness, sections of East Denny Circle will be closed between 7 a.m. and 8 p.m. Monday through Friday, through April 19. Please continue to use an alternate route during this time.
Click here for all of today's dining service menus
Law Students Compete at Uvaldo Herrera National Moot Court Competition
W&L’s Brandon Bishop ’26 Awarded the Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange Fellowship
Olivia Maier ‘24L Honored by American College of Bankruptcy
Record Number of W&L Students Awarded Critical Language Scholarship
Thomas deBuchananne ’27 Awarded CIE Arabic Summer Scholarship
W&L Students Claim First Place at University of Georgia Stock Pitch Competition
Two W&L Students Awarded Public Policy and International Affairs Fellowship
Law Students Compete at Global Antitrust Competition
German Law Journal Tops Ranking of International and European Law Journals
Six W&L Students Awarded Gilman Scholarships to Study Abroad
W&L’s Katie Yurechko Among 2024 Class of Marshall Scholars
W&L Student Receives Venture for America Fellowship
View previews editions of the monthly newsletter for each of the four classes.
Teambuilding Sessions available with the Outing Club
EID Al-Fitr - April 11 at 6pm
Last day of Ugr Winter term classes
Spring Option Intent to Stay form Deadline- Residence Life
Intro to Water Caving 
McAfee's Knob Hike
Last Day of Class Polar Plunge
Ugr Examinations begin: 2:00 pm
Coffee and Cuddles
Horseback Riding 
Ugr Examinations end: 12:00 noon
Fantasy Lake SCUBA trip 
The senior thesis exhibition will be on view April 1-12.
The campus community will promote sustainability and environmental advocacy with various events throughout the month of April.
The April 4 showcase is hosted by W&L’s Connolly Center for Entrepreneurship.
Lynch’s soprano recital will be held on April 6 at 8 p.m.
The play, written by Professor Chris Gavaler, will be performed at 7 p.m. on April 6 in Stackhouse Theater. 
The April 6 gathering marks the restoration of “The Foundation” on the university’s campus, originally part of the historic Liberty Hall Academy property.
No. 9 W&L sees 12 different goal-scorers in big win over Averett
Generals Athletics Today | April 10
Baseball Blanked by EMU in ODAC Midweek Contest
Women's Golf Remains in Third for Final Stith Standings
Generals Athletics Today | April 9
Women's Golf in Third After 18 Holes at Stith
Ott collects ODAC Offensive Player of the Week laurels
Moss claims ODAC Women's Tennis Player of the Week accolade
Kranich Named ODAC Women's Lacrosse Defensive Player of the Week
Sundell Earns ODAC Pitcher of the Week Honors
Find out when the next W&L athletics events are on campus!
These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university.
New Williams School construction and Elrod Commons Phase 2 renovations both remain on schedule, while the new Lindley Center for Student Wellness will break ground soon.
The state-of-the-art facility will be the new home of the Student Health Center and University Counseling Services.
The former executive director of ArtPower at the University of California, San Diego will begin his new role in July.
University Provost Lena Hill addressed new members of ODK during their spring induction ceremony.
Washington and Lee's Generals Activities Board has taken a dynamic approach to bringing the student body together through live music.
Read the latest announcements from around campus and/or create your own.