Located in the lower level of the Elrod Commons, The Marketplace is our all-you-care-to-eat dining hall. The Marketplace serves breakfast, lunch, and dinner, and offers continuous dining options in between. From homestyle comfort food favorites to authentic international selections from our Global Kitchen, you'll find fresh and nutritious meals that will satisfy any palette or eating preference.
At breakfast, enjoy eggs, breakfast meats, freshly-baked pastries and muffins, an expanded selection of your favorite cereals, and freshly-brewed Peet's coffee.
At Lunch and Dinner, enjoy an ever-changing variety of menu options including house-roasted meats, savory sides, international favorites, fresh-made pizza and pasta, and so much more. Our colorful salad bar is always stocked full of seasonal vegetables hand-cut that day complemented by an assortment of delicious dressings and soups made from fresh stock. Build your own deli sandwich, or grab a hot grilled chicken breast or fresh burger and crispy fries from our Lex Grill station. We have delicious selections daily for every diet, including vegan, vegetarian, and gluten-free, and we feature both home-style classics and global favorites.
On Saturdays and Sundays, join us for a marvelous weekend brunch! Imagine a bountiful salad and fresh fruit bar, savory soups, and brunch classics like chicken and waffles, country ham with brown sugar and bourbon glaze, Belgian waffles, and omelets made to your liking.
Continuous dining options are available between peak meal periods. Breakfast continuous options include baked goods, a cereal and toaster station, as well as a fruit and yogurt bar. Between lunch and dinner you will find the salad and deli bars open to serve you, as well as fresh-baked desserts, fresh fruit, and a full array of beverages.
For menu nutritional and allergen information, click here.
Loading...
The Marketplace(540) 458-8598
Assistant Director of Dining Services, The MarketplaceJames Zeislerjzeisler@wlu.edu(540) 458-4128


In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement