Your Dining Services team is committed to preparing food from-scratch, in small batches as close to service as possible. We are passionate about food and take pride in serving skillfully-prepared meals that are fresh, never-frozen and hand-crafted from the highest quality ingredients. We source significant portions of our food from local farmers, growers, and artisans, including produce from W&L's own Campus Garden. Our menus emphasize fresh, local and healthy options and are available in a variety of venues and formats, from all-you-care-to-eat to On the Go! to specialty catered events.
W&L dining set to reopen to full capacity for 2023-24 academic year.
Have questions about how your dining experience on campus may be affected by the current renovations to the Marketplace and Café 77?
W&L has a goal for campus carbon neutrality by 2050, but we are racing to get there a whole lot sooner. This means innovating how we source, use, and dispose of resources here on campus, designing our buildings, landscape and operations for the best environmental impact, and collaborating on progress with communities across campus and throughout Rockbridge County. Explore our progress and plans on the tabs below and in the most recent update of W&L's Climate Action Plan.
It is our goal that every W&L Dining team member be able to assist you in a friendly and helpful way whenever you have questions. Please don't hesitate to ask us for assistance. We are here to serve you!
We've created several fun and delicious ways to help you tell your special student, staff member or friend that you're thinking of them and the best part is that you can include your own personal note in every package!
Dining Services employs dozens of work-study students throughout our venues.  All students who are eligible for financial aid may apply through the student employment system and may request positions in The Marketplace, Café 77, Fieldside, E. Café, Tea House, Brief Stop, Catering, or the Campus Bakery.  Gain valuable work experience in a fun, fast-paced environment!
Dining Feedback
Contact Usdiningservices@wlu.edu
Director of Dining Services Alvin Wheelerawheeler@wlu.edu(540) 458-8106
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement