Washington and Lee University is committed to providing equal access to educational opportunities to qualified students with physical or mental disabilities and reasonable accommodations to qualified employees with physical or mental disabilities, in accordance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act. The University is also committed to ensuring that all individuals have access to information and information technology associated with administration and services, courses of instruction, departmental programs, and University-sponsored activities.
By following design standards, acquiring appropriate hardware and software, and improving the technical environment, the University sustains and improves access and services to students, faculty, staff and visitors--including those with disabilities-- and makes W&L websites, information and services accessible to the widest possible audience.
This site includes content in the following categories:

Information for undergraduate students requiring requiring disability accommodations and/or resources.
Information for law students requiring disability accommodations.
Information for employees requiring disability accommodations.
Regulations, tutorials, recommendations and evaluation tools for making accessible websites.
Recommendations and tutorials for making accessible documents and forms using Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Adobe PDF and the University's Forms Builder.
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement