The esteemed Buddhist philosopher will host a talk in Stackhouse Theater on March 7.
Rigney’s talk will be held Feb. 5 at 5 p.m.
Yurechko ’24 is the university’s first Marshall Scholar.
Patwardhan’s talk “What I See with My Eyes: Tarabai Shinde on Men’s Blame of Women” will be held Oct. 17 at 5 p.m.
Katie Yurechko ’24 presented research related to content creators circumventing TikTok’s content moderation algorithms.
Brainard’s talk “Does Artificial Intelligence Make Human Creativity Obsolete” will be held Sept. 26 at 5 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.
Christy Childs ’26 and Griffin Conti ’26 will receive funding to study foreign languages this summer.
Katie Yurechko ’24 presented on how algorithm awareness impacts algospeak use on TikTok.
For W&L alumni Kevin Green ’07 and Amanda Green ’06, nature and nurture go hand-in-hand.
Tartakovsky has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Azerbaijan, his parents’ homeland.
Dylan Santella ’25 presented “Gender and The Face: Expanding Upon the Butlerian Model of Ethics” at the undergraduate conference held March 31 at Swarthmore College.
Appiah is a professor of philosophy and law at New York University and the author of numerous books.
Washington and Lee’s Philosophy Department will host a talk by Upol Ehsan ’13 on Monday, March 13 from 6-7:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
CBL’s new initiative is an opportunity for faculty development, student collaboration and deepening partnerships with the surrounding community.
Angela Sun is an assistant professor of philosophy.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate student recipients.
Rosen utilized summer internships to help land his current role as an analyst at SVB Securities. 
Bernard has been selected as a 2022 Udall Scholar in the environmental category.
Lee has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Costa Rica starting in early 2023.
Under the Ted DeLaney Postdoctoral Program, Washington and Lee University is welcoming new faculty each year from underrepresented groups. 
Fernando Zapata joins W&L as a DeLaney Postdoctoral Fellow in Philosophy.
Professor Melina Bell’s article is titled "John Stuart Mill's Harm Principle and Free Speech: Expanding the Notion of Harm."
Tanner Hall ‘21 was recently awarded a fellowship to the Center for Arabic Study Abroad program at the American University in Cairo.
On May 23, Chad Thomas’21 will present a graduation piano recital featuring George Gershwin’s monumental work, “Rhapsody in Blue,” and other pieces.
The professor of philosophy emeritus taught at W&L from 1968 to 1996.
Philosophy Professor Melina Bell explains what policies could be adopted to help close the gap.
Studying philosophy and Arabic, traveling to Morocco and Beirut, and working with Professor Anthony Edwards to translate a Beiruti book have helped Tanner Hall '21 understand and appreciate other cultures.
Chris Gavaler and Nathaniel Goldberg have published “Revising Fiction, Fact, and Faith: A Philosophical Account”
Six students from Washington and Lee University participated in The Virginia Foundation for Independent Colleges’ 21st annual statewide collegiate Wells Fargo Ethics Bowl in February.
Shaun Soman '17, was appointed assistant news director of WORT, a community radio station in Madison, Wisconsin.
Chaisson’s lecture, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Cosmic Evolution.”
The duo will be discussing their new book, “Superhero Thought Experiments.”
The event, which is free and open to the public, is titled "The Future of the Amazon Rain Forest."
Chris Gavaler and Nathaniel Goldberg published “Superhero Thought Experiments.”
The Cape Town Program, a partnership between the Williams School and the Shepherd Program, provides students with an interdisciplinary experience they'll never forget.
Ben Peeples '21 is enjoying a chemistry internship at Brown University while training for the World Canoeing Championships in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
We asked professors to share course materials and discussion questions to offer a sneak peek at the breadth of opportunities available during the best term of the year. 
Luban’s lecture, which is titled "The Ethics of Professional Identities in Law and War,” will explore facets of professional identity.
McGowan’s lecture, which is free and open to the public, is titled “The Politics of Sacrificial Enjoyment: Freud and the Death Drive."
The two-day event focused on ethics and social justice issues.
Late professor emeritus Harry Pemberton is the first W&L faculty member to be recognized as an Honored Benefactor.
The panel, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Kavanaugh, SCOTUS Confirmation Hearings, and #whyididntreport.”
Bob Chandler ’92 charts his own course as co-owner of omnichannel retailer Tactics.
The scholarship will be the first awarded in the 2018-19 academic year.
Kathelen and Daniel Amos made the gift in memory of her son, John Kyle Spencer, a 2013 graduate of W&L. Professor Robert Humston (pictured) will be the new director.
Bob Chandler ’92 charted his own course as entrepreneur co-owner of omni-channel retailer Tactics
Her talk is titled "Does it Make Sense to Blame Corporations?" 
The title of her talk is “Epistemic Equality as a Condition of Well-Functioning Blame.”
Majo Bustamante '18 was a marketing and communications intern for NASA Automotriz, the company that owns the rights to sell Ford and Volkswagen in San Jose, Costa Rica.
The W&L team will compete head-to-head against other highly qualified student teams from Virginia’s 15 leading independent colleges and universities.
Charles Montgomery, urban design consultant and award-winning journalist, is the fourth speaker in the Questioning Intimacy Series.
Professors share the inspiration for their first-year seminars, and what they hope students will take away.
Quincy Springs '02 is set to open a Chick-fil-A that will also serve up a helping of civil rights history.
Maggie Little, director of the Kennedy Institute of Ethics (KIE) at Georgetown University, will speak on “Research With Pregnant Women: A Moral Imperative.”
As a summer counselor with the nonprofit Camp Fire Alaska, Chase Wonderlic '18 got in touch with his inner child and his adventurous spirit.
The sculptor's latest exhibit runs through Dec. 8 at Davidson College’s Van Every/Smith Galleries.
Scanlon will speak on “Further Reflections on Tolerance (and Some Implications for Immigration).”
Melina Bell discusses “2017’s Best & Worst States for Women’s Equality in a recent WalletHub article.
Professor Angie Smith's spring term class grapples with the question of just war theory in an age of terrorism.
Zachary Taylor '17 and Austin Piatt '17 believe leadership, collaboration and responsibility are the keys to a successful conference.
Melina Knabe was inspired by her own bilingualism to study the effects of knowing two languages on the brain.
Shaun Soman ’17 has found an unlikely home at Common Ground, an intentional community where he did his environmental service learning placement.
Quincy Springs ’02 didn't think college was in his future — until he spent a summer at W&L.
Three nationally acclaimed journalists will participate in a discussion of the challenges facing the news media in covering the Trump administration.
Sahar Akhtar, assistant professor in the department of philosophy at U.Va., will speak on "Why Religious and Racial Immigration Bans are Wrong."
Meet Lenny Enkhbold '17, a computer scientist with a passion for the outdoors, who isn't afraid to have a good laugh.
Shepherd Intern Zach Taylor explores a holistic approach to middle school education at the Washington Jesuit Academy.
The neuroscience major and philosophy minor will use her $500 research grant to fund her senior honors thesis.
Neeti Nair, associate professor in the Corcoran Department of History at the University of Virginia, to speak on "The Historian as Judge: Free Speech Case Laws in Postcolonial India and Pakistan.”
American students traveled abroad with international students for summer projects they created together. .
Philip Kitcher, the John Dewey Professor of Philosophy at Columbia University, will give a Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar lecture at Washington and Lee University on Oct. 27 at 5 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library. The title of the lecture is “The Case for Secular Humanism.”
Business administration and philosophy major Gordon McAlister '17 interns on the tech team at Sands Capital Management in Washington, D.C.
Seniors Teddy Corcoran and Stephanie Foster get students from around the country talking about ethics.
"All around me, I was exposed to ideas and opinions I had not considered before."
ODK National Leader of the Year Paqui Toscano talks about his approach to leadership.
"W&L has certainly taught me to expect the unexpected in a community of unique individuals."
"It is the strength of community and society that really makes W&L more than simply another great university."
"My W&L experience is defined by a multitude of activities, academics, and opportunities."
"This university can open many doors for its students, most of them unexpected."
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Philosophy archive.