With medical school on the horizon, Tyler embraces many opportunities such as research fellowship, studying abroad and sorority life.
Washington and Lee’s chapter of Remote Area Medical takes students to remote rural areas to provide medical services and gain valuable practical experience along the way.
Keuhner helped establish a memorial at Jordan’s Point dedicated to veterans killed in the line of duty and their families.
Graham appreciates how W&L empowers students to follow their passions.
Sadie Charles Calame ’23 has built a well-rounded college experience through campus and community involvement.
Despite challenges presented by the Covid-19 pandemic, many students were able to travel this summer for valuable professional experience in other countries.
Aishwarya Vemagiri '25 hopes her summer research experience on diet-induced obesity will lead to a career in the medical field.
Kristina Ayers '25 is interning at a medical clinic for the homeless in Washington, D.C. through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty.
Lucy Worthy ’24 is conducting clinical research and shadowing a physician at the Mayo Clinic.
Bridget Osas ’25 is researching behavioral impacts on the development of metabolic syndromes like obesity.
Allie Stankewich '23 spent summer 2021 learning about public health in Uganda and green roofs in New York City.
Brindle received a Jeffress Trust Awards Program in Interdisciplinary Research grant for his project, “"Modeling Energy Regulation Under Stress: A Possible Mechanism Linking Stress and Disease?"
At W&L, Mary North Jones has been able to pursue interests in both European history and medicine as she builds a foundation for her career.
After the pandemic canceled his original internship, Blake Sanchez '23 went to work for the Virginia Department of Health and the Campus Kitchen at W&L.
Chris Johnson ’00 uses his camera to document the COVID-19 crisis.
No tickets are required.
Working with Campus Kitchen at Washington and Lee has made Hannah Witherell '20 determined to continue helping others after she leaves W&L.
Allie Jue '20 has learned how to keep her studies in music and pre-med in perfect harmony with a job and extracurricular activities at W&L.
The title of Sue’s lecture is “Microaggressions: Toxic Rain on College Campuses."
Working with ICU patients at Vanderbilt University Medical Center through the Allen Grant has reaffirmed neuroscience major Laney Smith's desire to become a surgeon.
Through coursework and connections, Hannah Archer '20 helped to create a school food service program to ensure that local children have enough to eat during the summer. 
James Ricks '21 is spending the summer working for The Oda Foundation in Nepal, where he is researching tobacco use and working with children to create a mural that represents health in their town.
James Ricks '21 interviews Dr. Jonathan Wortham '04 about his work with the Centers for Disease Control.
Erin An '19 has spent time this summer researching immunotherapy treatments for pediatric cancer at the University of Virginia.
Dr. Daniel “Trey” Lee ’98 leads groundbreaking research and clinical trials of immunotherapy treatments to fight pediatric cancers.
Ethiopia Getachew '19 always had an interest in science, but working in the biochemistry lab and volunteering with local EMTs helped her future plans take shape.
Alex Meilech '18 spent the summer in Santiago, Chile, learning the language, exploring the culture, and caring for the people of the country.
Over the summer, students worked with Professor Robert Humston to examine the potential effects of smallmouth bass on native brook trout populations in the Virginia watershed.
Annie Jeckovich ’18 is studying the effects of obesity on reproduction in W&L's Fat Rat lab.
W&L senior Harrison Westgarth has been awarded a Fulbright grant to Brazil, where he will study the “Development of an Animal Model of Direct and Congenital Zika Virus Transmission.”
Meet Shlomo Honig ‘18, whose day consists of analyzing rocks, protecting the environment, and ultimate frisbee
Meet Tessa Horan '18, a pre-med, self-proclaimed "tree-hugger" with big plans for making the university - and the world - a little greener.
Meet Tara Loughery, a junior who was considering going pre-med, but decided to pursue a different path after the STEM Career Trip to Richmond.
Meet Harrison Westgarth '17, a pre-med varsity athlete with a passion for teaching English for Speakers of Other Languages.
Meet Andy Cuthbert '18, a pre-med neuroscience major with a serious love of the outdoors.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Pre-Med archive.