Leading Campus Kitchen, a student-run organization focused on addressing food insecurity, has been a rewarding experience.
The Spanish professor appears as a faculty expert in the film that debuted at the Virginia Film Festival last month. 
The show will be on display in Wilson Hall’s Lykes Atrium in conjunction with Esteban Ramón Pérez’s solo exhibition “Distorted Myths,” which will be on view in the Staniar Gallery Oct. 10 through Nov. 2. 
Despite challenges presented by the Covid-19 pandemic, many students were able to travel this summer for valuable professional experience in other countries.
Programa SOL, a three-week program for local bilingual youth, focused on language and literacy development, swimming lessons, active games and visits with community partners.
Fugate will use her graduate research fellowship from the National Science Foundation to study the migration patterns of bison in Yellowstone National Park. 
Addison has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Uruguay, where she will teach English to primary or secondary school students and serve as a cultural ambassador for the United States.
The Instituto Cervantes invited Professor Mayock to Spain to speak at the inaugural event for the Centenary Celebration of Carmen Laforet in March 2022.
Approximately 70% of students participate in an abroad program during their time at W&L.
Jayne Reino is a visiting assistant professor of Spanish at Washington and Lee University.
The novel “Ursula” is Brazil's first abolitionist novel and the first novel by an Afro-Brazilian woman.
The anthology consists of 15 essays in Spanish and English that offer a fresh look at Spanish metafiction, not just in literature but also in television, film, theatre, photography and art.
Professor Cristina Pinto-Bailey recently published an essay on Black Brazilian feminisms and translated four pieces by Afro-Brazilian writers.
Professor Seth Michelson completed a weeklong virtual residency and gave the keynote address on social justice at Southern Connecticut State University.
Hostile Terrain 94, a global pop-up exhibit that takes a powerful look at the human cost of undocumented migration at the U.S. southern border, opened at W&L this week after years of planning and collaboration.
Under Ellen Mayock's direction, student members of W&L's English for Speakers of Other Languages group will present at the virtual conference on March 25.
Norman Kim-Senior ’05 has created a COVID Memorial Walk and Run to foster community, support local nonprofits and mark the one-year anniversary of the pandemic.
Poppenberg has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Argentina starting in March 2022.
Jennifer Beam Dowd ’96 is co-managing a Facebook page, “Dear Pandemic,” to provide evidence-based advice about COVID-19 to a general audience.
The ESOL program at W&L, founded in 2001 to facilitate communication in the local community, now serves dozens of non-native English speakers each year with teaching, tutoring, translation and interpretation services.
Rivers has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Mexico starting January 2021.
A new play by Professor Domnica Radulescu gives voice to local immigrants.
Spending the summer in Nicoya, Costa Rica, helped Montgomery Owen '21 to strengthen his Spanish language skills.
Sydney Lee '21 spent summer 2019 studying Spanish and falling in love with the town of Nicoya, Costa Rica.
Ellen Mayock, the Ernest Williams II Professor of Spanish at Washington and Lee University, co-authored a Spanish textbook, “Indagaciones.” 
Our favorite term is well underway! Here is a glimpse inside some of the many fascinating courses being taught off-campus this year.
Edwin Castellanos Campos '20 came up with the idea for the special edition after taking a Spring Term sociology/anthropology course about U.S. immigration and refugees.
The title of Barnett’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is “Lost (And Found Again) in Translation.”
Beth Staples reinvents W&L's Shenandoah magazine with a commitment to diverse voices and intensive collaboration.
After spending the summer teaching and exploring in Costa Rica, Taylor Casey '20 can't wait to return.
Caroline Caruso '21 loved Costa Rica so much that she wants to open a medical practice there after graduate school. 
Daniel Rhoades '19 spent the summer immersed in the language and culture of Costa Rica.
Language and culture courses at W&L prepared Marissa Miller '21 for a fun, educational trip to Nicoya, where she met the vice president of Costa Rica (left, center).
Ali Greenberg ’13 has opened a flexible workspace and social club in Richmond that emphasizes community for women and gender minorities.
 Jared Shely '18 will use the grant to continue his work teaching English to students in Latin America.
Edwin Castellanos '20 created a system that allows students to save money by borrowing donated textbooks.
Kat Oakley '19 has spent a lot of time contemplating the idea of "place" - both in Lexington and across the world. 
Monica Musgrave '18 is already double-majoring, but that didn't stop her from spending six-weeks in England studying two completely different subjects.
The award will help to fund a trilingual translation of poetry by Mapuche-Argentine poet Liliana Ancalao.
Caroline Rivers test drove her Spanish—and her courage in unfamiliar environments—during a summer teaching gig in Argentina.
Washington and Lee Spanish professor Seth Michelson has compiled a book of poems written by incarcerated undocumented teens and translated by some of his students and him.
Shadowing doctors in Peru allowed Bryan D'Ostroph '19 to practice his Spanish and firm up future career plans in health care.
Julia Poppenberg '19 spent the summer as a translator in Guatemala, helping doctors and patients alike and learning to "talk strong."
Professor Jeff Barnett publishes a translation of Cuban poetry.
W&L senior Harrison Westgarth has been awarded a Fulbright grant to Brazil, where he will study the “Development of an Animal Model of Direct and Congenital Zika Virus Transmission.”
W&L senior John Dannehl has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain.
For World Thinking Day, W&L's foreign language teaching assistants led local Girl Scouts in a variety of internationally themed activities.
Alvin Carl Hollingsworth was a leading African-American artist whose works can be seen in W&L's Leyburn Library.
Meet Harrison Westgarth '17, a pre-med varsity athlete with a passion for teaching English for Speakers of Other Languages.
As a student at Washington and Lee, Noelani Love ’05 made jewelry for fun and extra income. Today, she has turned that hobby into a thriving business.
A discussion of "Gender Shrapnel in the Workplace," mentoring students and supporting W&L athletics.
Washington and Lee University this year welcomes seven foreign language teaching assistants.
Lucía Cespedes is one of seven foreign language teaching assistants at W&L this year.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Spanish archive.