Hundreds of W&L students, faculty and staff came together to witness the astronomical event.
A meeting with a Broadway legend allowed engineering major Zaria Daniels ’26 to take her vocal talents to Cuba.
“Myth, Magic, and Madness” will feature a dynamic lineup of creative workshops, dramatic readings and staged productions March 21-22.
The engineering professor will perform research related to gastrointestinal motility over the next three years in New Zealand.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Tom McClain, assistant professor of physics, will discuss this year’s Nobel Prize in Physics on Wednesday, Nov. 1.
W&L’s Summer Research Scholars program gives students hands-on experience in collaborative research with faculty mentors.
Mengying Liu will use the funds to research high-throughput crystallographic mapping in the United Kingdom.
Jon Erickson’s papers are part of an ongoing research project studying non-invasive gastric mapping techniques. 
Washington and Lee’s Philosophy Department will host a talk by Upol Ehsan ’13 on Monday, March 13 from 6-7:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
CBL’s new initiative is an opportunity for faculty development, student collaboration and deepening partnerships with the surrounding community.
Professor Joel Kuehner’s article focuses on film flow inside corrugated pipes.
Mazilu’s talk “A Physics Journey from Complex Systems to Simple Models” will be held in Northen Auditorium on Jan. 25.
Community-Based Learning’s collaborations this fall offered students an opportunity to deepen community connections.
Bill Benson ’92 worked on NASA’s Space Launch System which will enable astronauts to begin their journey into deep space.
The upcoming screening is the second installment in the DeLaney Center's ongoing film series.
Students in Jon Erickson's Electrical Circuits course are learning through teaching local elementary school students.
Tom Marcais, senior technology integration specialist, will present this year's Nobel Prize for Physics on Wednesday, Oct. 26.
These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university. 
Bryan credits W&L for teaching him how to approach the complex problems he has tackled throughout his multi-faceted career.
Bonner Kirkland '23 conducted biomedical research this summer in the Children’s National Hospital’s Department of Genetic Medicine.
Sarah Burd ’24 is spending her summer working for a medical technology company in Vienna, Austria, that specializes in prosthetic limbs.
Shrestha worked with the Office of Career and Professional Development at W&L to "engineer" the perfect career after graduation. 
After his USTA program orientation in September, Tinsley will teach in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
At W&L, Kirkland discovered that his two passions, sports and engineering, could be combined into one fulfilling pursuit. He's going to intern at a sports equipment company before heading to grad school at Purdue.
The STEM-focused endowment will support internships, research opportunities, academic conference costs and other student experiences.
A new deal will establish an offsite solar farm from which W&L will purchase energy equivalent to 100% of campus electricity use, allowing the university to lower greenhouse gas emissions, save money and close in on its goal of carbon neutrality.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Todd Rutkowski joined the Physics Department in the summer of 2020.
Visiting Assistant Professor Robert Elder joined Washington and Lee University's Physics and Engineering Department in fall 2020.
Mengying Liu is an assistant professor of engineering at W&L. 
It's the most wonderful term of the year, so keep an eye on @wlunews social media and this post for a daily dose of W&L's deeply engaging four-week term.
The Robert Lee Telford Professor of Physics and Engineering Emeritus died Nov. 24.
Washington and Lee University's Office of Community-Based Learning has partnered with Lexington on projects that provide real-world learning experiences for students while also advancing the city's goals.
The Rhodes Scholarship, which averages $70,000 per year and up to as much as $250,000, fully funds two to four years of study at the University of Oxford in England.
Laurie Jones '21 is grateful for the opportunities she's had at W&L, especially her place on the golf team and the chance to study through the Peace and Conflict Program in Ireland and Jordan.
Gabriele, a 2019 graduate, is the university’s 17th Rhodes Scholar.
Students in Washington and Lee University's Electrical Circuits class sparked interest in local elementary students through a Community-Based Learning project that partnered with the Rockbridge Area YMCA after-school program. 
 Each scholar is awarded $7,500 to support undergraduate research in their junior or senior year.
The scholarship will cover his remaining undergraduate tuition, a stipend, summer internships and then a job upon graduation.
Reid Calhoun ‘17 shares how his vision for the future inspires his annual giving.
Washington Break at W&L is about exploration, whether that discovery involves Texas mountaintops, Japanese culture or career opportunities in New York.
Barabas’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Dodging Silver Bullets: Understanding the Role of Technology in Social Change.”
Students in General Physics Lab I send eggs bungee jumping in the Science Center. The goal? Calculate correctly lest your project be a bust.
He taught at W&L from 1974 to 2011.
The event will focus on how data is shaping sports, entertainment, and healthcare.
Daniel Rhoades '19 spent the summer immersed in the language and culture of Costa Rica.
Blue Ridge Autism and Achievement Center’s Lexington branch recently held a grand opening celebration for a nature trail built by Washington and Lee University engineering students through a community partnership.
Newbolt taught at W&L from 1962 to 2000.
Yoko Koyama '19 put her W&L learning to work this summer at National Instruments Japan.
Moataz Khalifa discusses his new job as Leyburn Library's director of data education.
Tolu Olubunmi ’02 speaks up for immigrants and refugees.
ODK inducted four honorary and seven student initiates
Daniel Rhoades '19 joined a group that traveled to Monterrey, Mexico over Washington Break to continue a STEM program for elementary school students.
Beck is the 22nd General to receive the distinction over the last 15 years.
Women in Technology and Science gives girls from local middle and elementary schools an opportunity to perform science experiments in all disciplines during the academic year.
Sloan Evans ’99 and Rhett McCraw ’07 credit their liberal arts education with helping them build a strong foundation for their careers.
A team of Washington and Lee engineering majors is designing and building a walking trail for children served by Blue Ridge Autism and Achievement Center’s Lexington location. 
Alex Meilech '18 spent the summer in Santiago, Chile, learning the language, exploring the culture, and caring for the people of the country.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed engineering students Alfred Rwagaju '18 and Kennedy Gibson-Wynn '18 to spend the summer studying hydroelectric power in Rwanda.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Yoko Koyama '19 and Maren Lundgren '18 to open a store in Cameroon that will fund transportation for local children to go to middle school in a neighboring town.
Over the summer, students worked with Professor Robert Humston to examine the potential effects of smallmouth bass on native brook trout populations in the Virginia watershed.
With a Davis Projects for Peace grant, Angel Vela de la Garza Evia ’18 created an educational summer program for children in his hometown of Monterrey, Mexico. [With time-lapse VIDEO]
Matt Lubas '18 spent the summer in Zacapa, Guatamala, working at a prosthetic clinic for the Range of Motion Project.
Anukriti Shrestha '19 has found an intersection of mathematics, computer science and research — all in the heart of Lexington.
Twelve Class of 2021 students visited W&L for a five-week Advanced Research Cohort program that allowed them to dabble in STEM projects and establish quality relationships.
Will Schirmer ’20 investigates the fluid dynamics of periodic water surges.
Angel Vela de la Garza Evia ‘18 learned that research is two parts patience, two parts fun with lasers
Alexander Rurka '17 knows the ups-and-downs (and loop-de-loops) of flying and competing in an international plane building competition
Physics and engineering students at Washington and Lee put their creations to the test in the final week of Winter Term.
Meet Eleni Timas ‘17, a chemical engineering major who has been swept up studying tornadoes.
Whether they were doing service work in Birmingham, touring firms in NYC, or climbing an ice-encrusted mountain in New Hampshire, Washington and Lee students made the most of Washington Break.
W&L junior Angel Vela de la Garza Evia has won a $10,000 Davis Projects for Peace grant.
Deborah G. Johnson, the Olsson Professor of Applied Ethics and Emeritus, Science, Technology and Society Program at U.Va., will discuss the question, “Does Engineering Need a Code of Ethics?”
Meet Matt Lubas '18, an engineer who spends his spare time building communities.
Meet Ryder Babik '19, a student who enjoys college as much as he enjoys helping others apply to college.
Jamie Hayes ’17 spent two summer months in New Zealand, where he conducted research that could eventually help to improve the diagnosis of gastrointestinal ailments.
W&L physics professors Irina and Dan Mazilu join forces to mentor students and build a nanoscience program.
Using the university's IQ Center to fabricate some of the parts, students designed an airplane for an engineering competition.
Physics professors Dan and Irina Mazilu discuss their path to the U.S., taking students abroad and exploring their adopted country one state at a time.
12 exceptional students experience a unique summer program aimed at increasing retention in STEM majors.
John G. Casali, John Grado Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering and director of the Auditory Systems Laboratory at Virginia Tech, will give a lecture at W&L Oct. 12 at 4 p.m.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Prakhar Naithani '17 conducts research at North Carolina State University's Forestry Biomaterials Department.
Engineering major Walker Brand '18 gets a taste of the defense industry at Hardwire Armor Systems.
The Anne and Edgar Basse Jr. Author Talk Series, presented by the Leyburn University Library at Washington and Lee University, continues at 5 p.m. on Thursday, Oct. 20, with a talk by H. Thomas Williams, emeritus professor of physics at W&L.
Physics-engineering and computer science major Aswasan Joshi '17 interns in product development at Jobscience in San Francisco.
Eric Schwen '15 in  Paris, Madrid and London.
Lenfest Center House Directors work behind the scenes to keep performances running smoothly.
Students learn how two seemingly different disciplines are intertwined together in harmony.
A group of Washington and Lee students spent February break constructing a bio-sand water filter for a school in Belmopan, Belize.
The General Flyers club draws on engineering skills and IQ Center resources to design and fabricate an unmanned, electric-powered, radio-controlled aircraft.
"Washington and Lee has been the happy intersection of the qualities I desired in a large and small school."
Senior Xiaoxiang Yang gets a taste of the consulting world with The Brattle Group.
Jamie Hayes '17, Alfred Rwagaju '18 and Rajwol Joshi '18 are applying electrical engineering to create a medical solution for affordable diagnoses.
Senior Thomas Pritchard tests the service life of parachutes at the Natick Soldier Research Development and Engineering Center.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Physics and Engineering archive.