The April 6 gathering marks the restoration of “The Foundation” on the university’s campus, originally part of the historic Liberty Hall Academy property.
The Critical Language Scholarship Program funds a summer of overseas language and cultural immersion.
Hafsa Oubou’s essay “Churches Can, Mosques Can’t” appears in the January edition of Canopy Forum.
The professor and pollster will discuss applied sociology methods in her March 19 talk.
The professor of cultural anthropology will serve a dual role leading Community-Based Learning and the SHECP Consortium.
Krzysztof Jasiewicz authored “Roads to and from Democracy” from a collection of papers written over the course of 40 years.
De Zoysa is the university’s first recipient of the two-year scholarship for juniors interested in a public service career.
Allie Stankewich ’23 will spend the summer in Tanzania before pursuing a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship in Uganda.
Stankewich has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Uganda.
Graham appreciates how W&L empowers students to follow their passions.
Talton has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English to the Roma student population in Hungary.
Marcos Perez is an assistant professor of sociology.
Anne Rodgers '20, '23L writes about her experience using creativity and emotion in her work helping her client seek asylum.
For W&L alumni Kevin Green ’07 and Amanda Green ’06, nature and nurture go hand-in-hand.
Godsey has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Taiwan.
Moye-Green will pursue a master’s degree in criminal justice and penal change at the University of Strathclyde.
The fourth edition of “Comparative Politics” is a collaboration between faculty in W&L’s Department of Politics and Department of Sociology and Anthropology.
Whether it was inside the classroom or out and about on campus, Rebecca Dunn Piatt '16 looks back on her time at W&L fondly. 
Scott's advice for current students: "There is no one way to do college. Do it your way and make it count."
Terrence Johnson, professor of African American religious studies at Harvard University, will discuss his latest book on March 1.
Mugo says that, above all, W&L taught her to "always be curious."
The series, which highlights the range of post-graduate opportunities, features department alumni and kicks off Jan. 24.
“Practical Symbolic Interactions in the Shrine of the South: Conversations with a Damn Yankee” is set to be released on Jan. 15.
The panel will discuss "What Happened Last Night?” on Nov. 9 at 6 p.m. in Newcomb Hall.
Jon Eastwood serves as department chair for sociology and anthropology.
Booker will give a lecture on Sept. 27 at 5 p.m. in in Leyburn Library’s Northen Auditorium.
Spanfeller will be applying her studies in sociology and strategic communication to her new role as an editorial assistant for Women's Health magazine.
Jasiewicz, the William P. Ames Jr. Professor of Sociology at W&L, recently published a book titled “On the Streets and at the Polls."
Stankewich received a David L. Boren Scholarship from the National Security Education Program to study abroad in Tanzania in fall 2022.
Tripathi will teach English to students in Colombia for 10 months.
The Beinecke Scholarship Program provides funds for post-graduate study to students of unusual promise.
Cambridge University Press will publish Marcos Perez's book on Argentina's Unemployed Workers' Movement.
Moye-Green will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton.
As  part of a community-based learning class in the Sociology and Anthropology Department, students worked with community partners to create a workshop about positive sexual culture for first-year students.
The new social justice series titled “Measuring Choice and Freedom" will highlight the work of department alumni.
Hulya Dogan, visiting assistant professor of anthropology, joined W&L this fall. 
Allie Stankewich '23 spent summer 2021 learning about public health in Uganda and green roofs in New York City.
Two presenters who met at a 2017 conference at Washington and Lee joined forces to repatriate a stolen Nepali deity. 
Tanajia Moye-Green '23 is a small-town girl with big plans to make a difference in the world.
Everything has fallen into place at W&L for Alankrit Shatadal '21, who complemented her academic experience with research, peer counseling and membership in University Singers. 
As part of a community-based learning course in collaboration with Rockbridge Regional Tourism and the Rockbridge Historical Society, Washington and Lee University students researched and mapped Black-owned businesses that thrived in Lexington during the Jim Crow era.
Hostile Terrain 94, a global pop-up exhibit that takes a powerful look at the human cost of undocumented migration at the U.S. southern border, opened at W&L this week after years of planning and collaboration.
It's the most wonderful term of the year, so keep an eye on @wlunews social media and this post for a daily dose of W&L's deeply engaging four-week term.
Highlights include live performances of works written from artists and scholars nationwide.
The Sociology and Anthropology Department is collaborating with the Environmental Studies Program to present a new social justice series titled “White Supremacy and Society.”
The virtual talk, which is free and open to the public online, is titled "Naming Injustice: Charlene Teters (Spokane) and John Little (Standing Rock Sioux) on American Indian Mascots."
Bo Garfinkel '21 talks about the experiences she's been afforded recently as a recipient of a Public Policy and International Affairs fellowship and a Gilman Scholarship.
Enuma Anekwe-Desince '22 has found her niche at Washington and Lee University through her involvement in the Advanced Immersion and Mentoring Program, leadership roles in student organizations, and work as a research assistant in the sociology and psychology departments.
When her summer research trip to Nepal was canceled because of COVID-19, Danika Brockman went to work for the Rockbridge Area Relief Association, where she helps with the food pantry.
Julia Hernandez took a Spring Term class in Ghana and studied abroad in France and Morocco, proving that W&L is a gateway to opportunities all over the globe.
At W&L, Eric Herrera did field work in Ghana, created a biotech startup, and discovered the original location of the Alamo.
Garfinkel will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton
When Kara Lough '20 found W&L, she found a supportive environment that allowed her to lead a magazine, study in Italy, work as a photographer and plan a career.
Washington and Lee University's Office of Community-Based Learning has partnered with Lexington on projects that provide real-world learning experiences for students while also advancing the city's goals.
Lainey Johnson '16 values connections with a variety of people from different backgrounds, which is something she learned to prize at W&L. 
Danika Brockman '21 interviews Natasha Lerner '13 about making a difference in women's health.
Who are we? Professor Alison Bell '91 uncovers clues about W&L’s complex identity through artifacts recovered near Liberty Hall Ruins.
The Cape Town Program, a partnership between the Williams School and the Shepherd Program, provides students with an interdisciplinary experience they'll never forget.
Sascha Goluboff's Spring Term class, Cults, took an in-depth look at the development and process behind misunderstood religions.
As part of an immersive Spring Term sociology course, students created a campus-wide event to serve as a real-world study on inclusivity.
Christina Cheadle ’16 is a community and events manager for KonMari Media Inc., the company founded by tidying expert and Netflix star Marie Kondo.
The Geology and Archaeology departments collaborated with W&L's Outing Club to create a fun, educational hike just a short drive from Lexington.
 In Tanzania, Mugo will study the perception of the life of refugees after resettlement.
At Washington and Lee University, Hernandez is majoring in sociology and anthropology and French.
Lynn Rainville, community initiatives fellow at the University of Virginia’s Institute for Advanced Technology in the Humanities and former dean of Sweet Briar College, will be the inaugural Director of Institutional History at Washington and Lee University.
The title of Gary Staab’s presentation is “Digital Dinosaurs: Fleshing out the Past." 
Averett’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Frightening the Frightful: Grotesque Visages from Ancient Cyprus.”
Andy Smithey '20 is editor-in-chief of a new student publication, founded by Liv Cooper '20 and Genna Feirson '20, that aims to amplify unheard voices on campus.
Ron Ginder '75 isn't one of Santa's elves; he's a thoughtful alumnus who makes 800 wooden toys each year for Rockbridge-area children. 
W&L Anthropology Professor Alison Bell discusses grave sites on "With Good Reason Radio."
The talk is free and open to the public, and refreshments will be provided.
In response to student demand, Washington and Lee University has added three new interdisciplinary minors to enrich its curriculum.
In their discussion, the duo will address "Transatlantic relations between Poland and the United States."
In his talk, which is free and open to the public, Mounk will discuss the rise of populism around the world.
While digging at the Athenian Agora Excavation in Greece this summer, Allison Schuster '19 indulged her passion for archaeology and classics.
A new book by Harvey Markowitz, associate professor of anthropology, examines Native Americans and Catholic missionaries. 
Donald Gaylord's Spring Term class introduced students to archaeological lab methods through hands-on experience, readings and field trips. 
The Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE) research fellowship will allow her to conduct research at the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute for Chemical Defense.
Bell will discuss her second book, “Fighting King Coal: The Challenges to Micromobilization in Central Appalachia.”
ODK inducted four honorary and seven student initiates
Mugo will attend the Public Policy and International Affairs Junior Summer Institute at the Heinz College at Carnegie Mellon.
Bri Shaw has spent her college career studying how humans work. Now, the senior has some ideas about how the humans at W&L could work better together.
Joseph Guse, John C. Winfrey Associate Term Professor of Economics, will give a talk in honor of his professorship on Tues., April 3 at 5:00 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. 
Kat Oakley '19 has spent a lot of time contemplating the idea of "place" - both in Lexington and across the world. 
Lex McGriff '18 has grown into a leader in W&L's Student Association for Black Unity. As she prepares for graduation, she hopes more underclassmen will become leaders like her.
Broadcast journalism opportunities have been plentiful at W&L for Ford Carson '18, but the highlight of his college career has been founding a satirical publication, The Radish.
Jackson Roberts '19 had the opportunity to intern in Quito, Ecuador, exploring local customs, becoming part of the community, and learning the ins and outs of healthcare.
A three-month internship with New York-based artist Taryn Simon presented Sara Dotterer '18 with myriad possibilities for her future career.
Vicky Kazmierczak '18 spent the summer in Memphis, learning the ins and outs of non-profit work — and how to hope.
The story featured Bell and her work studying cemeteries in the Shenandoah Valley.
Alex Meilech '18 spent the summer in Santiago, Chile, learning the language, exploring the culture, and caring for the people of the country.
Professors share the inspiration for their first-year seminars, and what they hope students will take away.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation sent Trang Duong '20 and Hannah Denham '20 to Vietnam, where they had enlightening interviews with both men and women about marriage in modern Vietnamese society.
Anna Milewski '18 has spent time in fields, labs, carpenter shops and seminar rooms - and it was all part of one internship at the home of George Washington.
Shadowing doctors in Peru allowed Bryan D'Ostroph '19 to practice his Spanish and firm up future career plans in health care.
Through the U.Va. Field School for Public Health Research, Julie Sklar '18 was able to work with a medical anthropologist and epidemiologist in South Africa this summer.
Klinenberg's talk, “The Sociology of Connection: From Going Solo to Modern Romance,” is open to the public.
Elena Diller '17 and Caroline Todd '17 saw a need for more perspective in academics — so they got to work.
What can you do in four years at W&L? How about manage a radio show, start a service organization, found a club, or publish an EP? Austin Frank ’17 has done them all.
Families and people of all ages are encouraged to take part in “The Many Stories of Main Street,” an interpretive downtown Lexington walking tour.
WDBJ-7 interviewed Dana Gary '18 and Austin Frank '17 about student-run label Friday Underground Records.
Sierra Noland and Tara Cooper received Critical Language Scholarships sponsored by the U.S. Department of State.
MK Moran's work with the LGBTQ Resource Center at Washington and Lee is impacting student perspectives.
Filiz Garip, professor of sociology at Cornell University, will speak about her book “On the Move: Changing Mechanisms of Mexico-U.S. Migration.”
The CEO of a top sales-training company says everyone is in sales.
In the first installment of this new series, Tom Camden offers the story of a Sumerian clay tablet that is the oldest recorded document in W&L's Special Collections.
Maurizio Albahari, associate professor of anthropology at the University of Notre Dame, will speak on “Crimes of Peace: Methods and Ethics of European Responses to Mediterranean Migrations.” 
Alex Meilech '18 has experienced tradition - from Lexington, Virginia to Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Meet Tara Loughery, a junior who was considering going pre-med, but decided to pursue a different path after the STEM Career Trip to Richmond.
Meet Stephanie Chung '18, an anthropology major with a passion for women's health advocacy.
University College London historian to give talk titled, “The Eye of the Other: Travel Writing and Travel Polemics in Eastern Europe from the 18th Century to the Present.”
The Center for International Education at Washington and Lee University will present a panel discussion on “Brexit and the Crisis of Democracy in Europe” on Nov. 3 at 6 p.m. in the Stackhouse Theater in Elrod Commons at W&L. The discussion is free and open to the public.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Bogdan Bors '17 interns with Community Empowerment Solutions, a social entrepreneurship company focusing on microconsignment opportunities in Ecuador.
Sasha Goluboff talks about her farm, the influence of technology on student sociality and her most recent project involving a black church in Brownsburg, Virginia.
Harald Leibrecht, former member of the Bundestag (German Federal Parliament), will give a lecture on “Germany and the European Union: Current Issues and Challenges” at Washington and Lee University on Sept. 22 at 7 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
"Faculty and staff have supported me in my pursuit of fostering a greater global perspective to bring back to Lexington."
Recipients of W&L's Certificate of International Immersion reflect on their experiences abroad.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Sara Jones '18 Travels to India to Study Maternal and Child Health.
Emma Busse is a sociology and economics major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Charleston, W.Va. A member of the Class of 2015, she spent a summer in Camden, N.J., as a Shepherd Intern with the Cooper's Ferry Partnership, development firm that uses a multi-faceted approach to make Camden a better place to live, work, and invest.
"W&L is a community that truly enables and encourages students to step outside of their comfort zones."
Kristine Kilanski ’07 looked at the "invisible" side of Austin through the eyes of another to contribute to a book about inequality in the city.
Laurent Boetsch Term Associate Professor of Sociology.
"Over my years at W&L I have constantly been drawing and redrawing myself, trying to find the most sincere, visceral and true parts."
"My W&L experience has been everything I thought that college would be."
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Anthropology and Sociology archive.