The esteemed Buddhist philosopher will host a talk in Stackhouse Theater on March 7.
Cohen’s talk, “Music as Witness: a Composer Commemorates the Holocaust,” will be held at 4 p.m. on Feb. 13 in Hillel 101.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Five-Star Distinguished Alumni Award winners
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Young Alumni Award winners
Talton has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English to the Roma student population in Hungary.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Alumni Award winners
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Five-Star Distinguished Alumni Awards winners
Terrence Johnson, professor of African American religious studies at Harvard University, will discuss his latest book on March 1.
Anthony Edwards, Theodore Van Loan and Kameliya Atanasova were featured at the annual event. 
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Young Alumni Award winners
Timothy Lubin and Anthony Edwards both presented at the event held in Berlin earlier this month.
Margaret Witkofsky '24 is researching grants for the city of Lexington, Virginia through her internship with the Office of Community-Based Learning.
Ten years after helping found the LGBTQ Resource Center at W&L, Chris Washnock ’12 has carried its community-building lessons into a career in faith-based advocacy.
The award covers full tuition and includes a $10,000 stipend toward living expenses.
Class of 2021 students in religion are heading out to do big things following W&L.
Filler, an assistant professor in the Religion Department, joined the W&L faculty in fall 2020.
The university’s new religion minor requires completion of six courses and complements any major.
Fifteen W&L faculty members and two alumnae have signed on to help teach a Fall Term course that will cover multiple aspects of the COVID-19 crisis.
Bridget Bartley '21 interviews Shiri Yadlin '12, director of Just Homes, a nonprofit that helps faith communities address homelessness in D.C.
The fellowships will support 18 months of research and writing on Hindu law.
 Clifford Ando’s and Winnifred Fallers Sullivan’s lectures are free and open to the public.
The Cape Town Program, a partnership between the Williams School and the Shepherd Program, provides students with an interdisciplinary experience they'll never forget.
Our favorite term is well underway! Here is a glimpse inside some of the many fascinating courses being taught off-campus this year.
The title of McMahon’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is “Brexit on the Border: What We Know and Don’t Know about Irish/UK Relations.”
R. Alan Winstead ’85 is a driving force for the  Meals on Wheels program in his community.
The panel discussion, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Who Is America?! A Response to Michael Anton’s Constitution Day Lecture.”
Erin An '19 has spent time this summer researching immunotherapy treatments for pediatric cancer at the University of Virginia.
W&L will recognize the outstanding contributions of professors Marjorie Agosín and Harlan Beckley at its 231st commencement.
More than any other experience at W&L, the Outing Club has taught Bowen Spottswood '18 about living life joyfully.
Elizabeth McDonald heads to Japan, Emily Austin to Indonesia and Riley Ries to Kyrgyzstan.
After Tucker Hall was restored, University Collections of Art & History worked to find the perfect art to adorn its walls — including four bas-relief sculptures that hung on campus more than 100 years ago.
“The Goddess Diaries” is an ongoing theatrical production featuring true-life stories of women.
The title of his talk is "A Hesitant Intimacy: Medicine’s Response to the Unchosen Vulnerability of the Sick and Suffering.”
Flower’s talk is titled “The Dancing Lares and the Serpent in the Garden: Roman Local and Household Religion.”
Allen’s speech is titled: “Why Hide Anything?” She is the fifth speaker in the year-long Questioning Intimacy series.
Over 1,200 miles of biking and hiking trails led Ralston Hartness '18 from Spain to Ireland, discovering the meaning of pilgrimage along the way.
On the 500th anniversary of the start of the Protestant Reformation, we take a closer look at a special item in the Reeves Collection — a plate that bears the image of Martin Luther.
Professors share the inspiration for their first-year seminars, and what they hope students will take away.
Four Martin Luther tracts housed in W&L's Special Collections were fully restored in time for the 500th anniversary of the start of the Protestant Reformation.
Scanlon will speak on “Further Reflections on Tolerance (and Some Implications for Immigration).”
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Tiffany Ko '20 and Jiwon Kim '20 to study religion in South Korea during summer 2017.
Hannah Palmatary '18 spent the summer discovering the ancient ruins of Greece, as well as her own talent and passion for creative writing.
The Rev. Dr. Jennifer Strawbridge ’01, associate professor in New Testament Studies at the University of Oxford a will speak on “Skulls and Scripture: Reception of the Sacred.”
A Bible in the Special Collections vault turned out to be the 1642 New Testament that belonged to France’s King Louis XIII.
UVa professor Shankar Nair will be speaking on "An Iranian Philosopher Roams India: Making Sense of an Early Modern Muslim Interpretation of Hinduism."
In the first installment of this new series, Tom Camden offers the story of a Sumerian clay tablet that is the oldest recorded document in W&L's Special Collections.
Hospice chaplain Kerry Egan '95 reflects on the important lessons her dying patients passed on to her.
Neeti Nair, associate professor in the Corcoran Department of History at the University of Virginia, to speak on "The Historian as Judge: Free Speech Case Laws in Postcolonial India and Pakistan.”
Four W&L faculty will talk about their experiences with Open Access publishing, both from the editorial and authorial perspectives, on Oct. 24 from 4:30–5:30 p.m.
After majoring in biochemistry, religion and music composition at W&L, Thomas Day took his skills to help people at their most vulnerable point in life. .
"W&L has certainly taught me to expect the unexpected in a community of unique individuals."
Accounting and Religion major Andrea Owen '16 interns for Ernst & Young.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Religion archive.