The first-year student says the Outing Club and W&L's proximity to great hiking and kayaking spots were a big draw.
W&L’s Phi Beta Kappa chapter named the Phi Beta Kappa J. Brown Goehring Sophomore Award in his honor.
With medical school on the horizon, Tyler embraces many opportunities such as research fellowship, studying abroad and sorority life.
Keuhner helped establish a memorial at Jordan’s Point dedicated to veterans killed in the line of duty and their families.
Kyle Friend, associate professor of chemistry and biochemistry, will discuss this year’s Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine on Nov. 8 in Leyburn Library’s Harte Center.
W&L’s Summer Research Scholars program gives students hands-on experience in collaborative research with faculty mentors.
Christy Childs ’26 and Griffin Conti ’26 will receive funding to study foreign languages this summer.
Washington and Lee seniors David Onyejekwe ’23, Jake McCabe ’23 and Bailey Keel ’23 have created lasting connections with the local community as volunteer coaches for Lex Lax youth lacrosse.
Professors Nadia Ayoub and Kyle Friend, and students Jamal Magoti ’23, Maria Luzaran ’23, Cooper Lazo ’24 and Eman Muamar ’24 all contributed to the paper that appeared in the open science platform Frontiers.
Li is excited to take advantage of the personalized education W&L offers and to explore the Lexington-Rockbridge area.
Aishwarya Vemagiri '25 hopes her summer research experience on diet-induced obesity will lead to a career in the medical field.
The STEM-focused endowment will support internships, research opportunities, academic conference costs and other student experiences.
Elizabeth Grist has been awarded a Fulbright research grant to Melbourne, Australia, to study the stigma and barriers associated with receiving medication for opioid use disorder.
CSI: W&L students are learning forensic science with the help of a real FBI evidence response team.
Each scholar is awarded $7,500 to support undergraduate research in their junior or senior year.
Daniel K. Afosah, assistant professor of chemistry, joined the Washington and Lee University faculty in 2021.
Everything has fallen into place at W&L for Alankrit Shatadal '21, who complemented her academic experience with research, peer counseling and membership in University Singers. 
Bui’s USTA position with Fulbright Austria starts in September 2021.
Associate Professor of Biology Nadia Ayoub collaborated with students and alumni to publish a research article in the open-access journal PLOS ONE titled “The common house spider, Parasteatoda tepidariorum, maintains silk gene expression on sub-optimal diet.”
The commentary was published this week in The Roanoke Times.
A $27,600 grant from Associated Colleges of the South will allow for the development of phase two of ChemTutor, a tutorial system for students new to college-level chemistry.
George Barker '20 used both of his majors⁠, computer science and chemistry, to help build a website that makes a challenging subject more approachable for students.
Ben Peeples '21 is enjoying a chemistry internship at Brown University while training for the World Canoeing Championships in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
For Darcy Olmstead '21 and Lindsey Hewitt '21, analyzing art in the Netherlands and the U.S. with Professor Erich Uffelman has been an educational 'dream come true.'
Working with ICU patients at Vanderbilt University Medical Center through the Allen Grant has reaffirmed neuroscience major Laney Smith's desire to become a surgeon.
In the Genetic Engineering and Society SIn the Genetic Engineering and Society Spring Term class, students focus on the intersection of science, medicine, law, agriculture, ethics and public policy.pring Term class, students focus on the intersection of science, medicine, law, agriculture and public policy.
Virginia's largest craft brewer, Devils Backbone Brewing Co., serves students of analytical chemistry hands-on learning, grain to glass.
Hester will participate in an intensive eight-week Chinese language course at Shaanxi Normal University.
The title of Gary Staab’s presentation is “Digital Dinosaurs: Fleshing out the Past." 
Fred LaRiviere, associate professor of chemistry and biochemistry at Washington and Lee University, is the new associate dean of the college, beginning Feb. 11.
James Ricks '21 interviews Dr. Jonathan Wortham '04 about his work with the Centers for Disease Control.
Virginia McGhee ’19 spent the summer at Stanford University building polymers in Bob Waymouth ’82’s chemistry lab.
The grant will help fund a multidisciplinary team from three institutions, including W&L, that will investigate how variation in adhesive-protein components of spider silk relate to differences in the glue’s material properties.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Midha Ahmad '21 and Sawera Khan '21 to spend the summer in Pakistan, where they compared alternative medicine to traditional treatment.
Erin An '19 has spent time this summer researching immunotherapy treatments for pediatric cancer at the University of Virginia.
Evans will discuss the history behind several fraudulent copies of Lansdowne-style George Washington portraits that were produced based on the original. 
Yoko Koyama '19 put her W&L learning to work this summer at National Instruments Japan.
Dr. Daniel “Trey” Lee ’98 leads groundbreaking research and clinical trials of immunotherapy treatments to fight pediatric cancers.
The NSF only funds about 11,000 of the 40,000 proposals it receives annually for research, education and training projects. 
Women in Technology and Science gives girls from local middle and elementary schools an opportunity to perform science experiments in all disciplines during the academic year.
W&L's Kyle Friend received a $100,000 grant from the Jeffress Trust Awards Program in Interdisciplinary Research. 
Yavuz Durmaz ’20 worked with Professor Kyle Friend to probe mRNA instability.
University Collections teamed up with the Art History and Chemistry departments at W&L to examine a tiny painting surrounded by mystery.
Anukriti Shrestha '19 has found an intersection of mathematics, computer science and research — all in the heart of Lexington.
Twelve Class of 2021 students visited W&L for a five-week Advanced Research Cohort program that allowed them to dabble in STEM projects and establish quality relationships.
Annie Jeckovich ’18 is studying the effects of obesity on reproduction in W&L's Fat Rat lab.
Angel Vela de la Garza Evia ‘18 learned that research is two parts patience, two parts fun with lasers
Meet Eleni Timas ‘17, a chemical engineering major who has been swept up studying tornadoes.
W&L junior Angel Vela de la Garza Evia has won a $10,000 Davis Projects for Peace grant.
This associate dean of the college is interested in green chemistry, playing the flute and teaching her Science of Cooking class in Italy
Alex Meilech '18 has experienced tradition - from Lexington, Virginia to Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Finding answers in the space where science and art intersect.
Michael Sullivan spent his summer interning at the Cultural Heritage Institute of the Netherlands in Amsterdam
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Cameron Lee interns at the Cluj School of Public Health in Romania.
Four W&L faculty will talk about their experiences with Open Access publishing, both from the editorial and authorial perspectives, on Oct. 24 from 4:30–5:30 p.m.
12 exceptional students experience a unique summer program aimed at increasing retention in STEM majors.
Sage Timberline is a biochemistry major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Richmond, Va. A member of the Class of 2015, she interned at the Downtown Health Plaza in Winston-Salem, N.C.
Emmanuel Abebrese is a biochemistry major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Woodbridge, Va. A member of the Class of 2015, he is a member of the Student Association for International Learning, the African Students Association and the Beta Beta Beta biology honor society. He is also the founder of Citadel Foundation for Kids, a nonprofit organization in Ghana and the U.S. that provides children with mentors, resources and training to prepare them for future global leadership and focuses on alleviating child poverty worldwide.
After majoring in biochemistry, religion and music composition at W&L, Thomas Day took his skills to help people at their most vulnerable point in life. .
"W&L is about the people who make the traditions and community succeed."
Lenfest Center House Directors work behind the scenes to keep performances running smoothly.
Chemistry major Levi Warring interns with NASA.
"One of the most important things about science, and any discipline, is communication."
Sophomore Brett Becker has started the Pre-dental Club for Washington and Lee students who want to study dentistry and to volunteer in the community.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Chemistry archive.