These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university.
Leading Campus Kitchen, a student-run organization focused on addressing food insecurity, has been a rewarding experience.
The assistant professor of French will utilize the scholarship to perform research in Paris.
The Chilean activist’s talk will be held Feb. 12 at 5 p.m.
Mohamed Kamara’s book titled “Colonial Legacies in Francophone African Literature” hits bookshelves Dec. 15.
The Spanish professor appears as a faculty expert in the film that debuted at the Virginia Film Festival last month. 
The professor has also published two literary works in recent months. 
Zoila Ponce de León’s chapter is titled “Health Care and the Public-Private Mix in Mexico, Chile, and Peru” and appears in the Latin American section of the publication.
Marcos Perez is an assistant professor of sociology.
Sharon Mendieta Ramirez ’23 has designed her W&L experience to prepare her for her career as an educator.
The solo exhibition will run from April 24 to May 25 in Staniar Gallery inside Washington and Lee University’s Lenfest Center for the Arts.
Baluarte will teach in the Refugee Law Clinic and assist in the development of clinical legal education more broadly at the Iberoamericana University.
The fourth edition of “Comparative Politics” is a collaboration between faculty in W&L’s Department of Politics and Department of Sociology and Anthropology.
For more than 20 years, ESOL volunteers have participated in language and literacy work in the Lexington-Rockbridge area and beyond.
Writer and director LaKeisha Fleming ’95 is the founder of Vision 2:2 Productions.
Zoila Ponce de León recognized by the Journal for Latin American Studies.
The show will be on display in Wilson Hall’s Lykes Atrium in conjunction with Esteban Ramón Pérez’s solo exhibition “Distorted Myths,” which will be on view in the Staniar Gallery Oct. 10 through Nov. 2. 
The Comunidad Latina Estudiantil has planned and organized numerous events in collaboration with the Office of Inclusion and Engagement.
Zoila Ponce de León will utilize the grant to study immigration and deportation in the U.S. and Brazil. 
Lepage’s talk “Borderlands Arts Pedagogy” will be held on Sept. 28.
Despite challenges presented by the Covid-19 pandemic, many students were able to travel this summer for valuable professional experience in other countries.
Collin Frazey ’23 spent his summer working for Meta's intellectual property team in the heart of Silicon Valley.
Margaret Witkofsky '24 is researching grants for the city of Lexington, Virginia through her internship with the Office of Community-Based Learning.
Ponce de Leon's paper "Women Want an Answer! Field Experiments on Elected Officials and Gender Bias" was featured in the Harvard Gendar Action Portal
Programa SOL, a three-week program for local bilingual youth, focused on language and literacy development, swimming lessons, active games and visits with community partners.
Burden is taking her talents to New York City to work in strategic planning at advertising agency BBDO.
Three members of the Class of 2022 will spend seven months in the Teaching Assistant Program in France (TAPIF) teaching English to public school.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Galvez has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to France, where he will teach English to secondary school students and serve as a cultural ambassador for the United States.
David Gálvez's favorite places on campus are the Global Discovery Laboratories and a special study corner in the library.
Fugate will use her graduate research fellowship from the National Science Foundation to study the migration patterns of bison in Yellowstone National Park. 
Addison has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Uruguay, where she will teach English to primary or secondary school students and serve as a cultural ambassador for the United States.
Rădulescu's plays capture the challenges and triumphs faced by immigrants and refugees.
The Instituto Cervantes invited Professor Mayock to Spain to speak at the inaugural event for the Centenary Celebration of Carmen Laforet in March 2022.
Six undergraduate students received Critical Language Scholarships, which will provide them the opportunity to study language intensively during summer 2022.
Cambridge University Press will publish Marcos Perez's book on Argentina's Unemployed Workers' Movement.
Approximately 70% of students participate in an abroad program during their time at W&L.
The book will prove invaluable in helping students gain a better understanding of the theory and practice of environmental and natural resource economics.
Jayne Reino is a visiting assistant professor of Spanish at Washington and Lee University.
The novel “Ursula” is Brazil's first abolitionist novel and the first novel by an Afro-Brazilian woman.
 Ponce de León's peer-reviewed journal article focuses on the impact of political parties on healthcare reform in Peru.
The anthology consists of 15 essays in Spanish and English that offer a fresh look at Spanish metafiction, not just in literature but also in television, film, theatre, photography and art.
Professor Cristina Pinto-Bailey recently published an essay on Black Brazilian feminisms and translated four pieces by Afro-Brazilian writers.
The Rockbridge Community Health Foundation has awarded a $25,000 grant to the W&L student organization to pilot a summer program in 2022.
The program offers participants the opportunity to work in France for seven months, teaching English to French students of all ages.
Professor Seth Michelson completed a weeklong virtual residency and gave the keynote address on social justice at Southern Connecticut State University.
Hostile Terrain 94, a global pop-up exhibit that takes a powerful look at the human cost of undocumented migration at the U.S. southern border, opened at W&L this week after years of planning and collaboration.
Professor Andrea Lepage recently published two essays based on exhibits in W&L's Staniar Gallery.
Lorena Terroba Urruchua '21 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship (ETA) to Spain.
Helping with sheep at Tom Stanley's farm is providing Isaiah Medina '22 and Abby Hamilton '22 with valuable experience that they can include on future veterinary school applications. 
The article is titled “Lava Jato deepened political chaos in Peru and splashes the 18 presidential candidates.”
Under Ellen Mayock's direction, student members of W&L's English for Speakers of Other Languages group will present at the virtual conference on March 25.
Miranda's new poem, "Torch," was selected as the American Academy of Poets' "Poem-a-Day."
Norman Kim-Senior ’05 has created a COVID Memorial Walk and Run to foster community, support local nonprofits and mark the one-year anniversary of the pandemic.
Poppenberg has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Argentina starting in March 2022.
Kristina M. Roney, visiting assistant professor of French at W&L, was recently named the incoming finance officer for the SFHS, a three-year term that places her on the society’s Executive Committee.
At W&L, Lorena Terroba Urruchua ’21 found her purpose — helping people with disabilities — at the intersection of psychology, Romance languages and poverty studies. 
Next year, he will serve as president of the association, which supports African writers around the world.
The article, published in the Journal of Experimental Political Science, questions whether elected officials are more responsive to men than women inquiring about access to government services.
Jennifer Beam Dowd ’96 is co-managing a Facebook page, “Dear Pandemic,” to provide evidence-based advice about COVID-19 to a general audience.
The ESOL program at W&L, founded in 2001 to facilitate communication in the local community, now serves dozens of non-native English speakers each year with teaching, tutoring, translation and interpretation services.
Julia Hernandez took a Spring Term class in Ghana and studied abroad in France and Morocco, proving that W&L is a gateway to opportunities all over the globe.
Rivers has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Mexico starting January 2021.
In his first experience outside the U.S., Joshua Valdez '22 traveled to Argentina for a memorable internship.
A new play by Professor Domnica Radulescu gives voice to local immigrants.
The Rhodes Scholarship, which averages $70,000 per year and up to as much as $250,000, fully funds two to four years of study at the University of Oxford in England.
Spending the summer in Nicoya, Costa Rica, helped Montgomery Owen '21 to strengthen his Spanish language skills.
Sydney Lee '21 spent summer 2019 studying Spanish and falling in love with the town of Nicoya, Costa Rica.
The public reading is free and open to the public.
The focus will be the "1619 Project" and the U.S. Constitution.
Ellen Mayock, the Ernest Williams II Professor of Spanish at Washington and Lee University, co-authored a Spanish textbook, “Indagaciones.” 
The article is titled “The Changing Shapes of Latin American Welfare States."
Through coursework and connections, Hannah Archer '20 helped to create a school food service program to ensure that local children have enough to eat during the summer. 
The fellowship, made possible by The Lila Wallace – Reader’s Digest Fund, is designed for scholars who explore “Italy in the World.” 
We asked professors to share course materials and discussion questions to offer a sneak peek at the breadth of opportunities available during the best term of the year. 
Our favorite term is well underway! Here is a glimpse inside some of the many fascinating courses being taught off-campus this year.
At Washington and Lee University, Hernandez is majoring in sociology and anthropology and French.
Edwin Castellanos Campos '20 came up with the idea for the special edition after taking a Spring Term sociology/anthropology course about U.S. immigration and refugees.
The title of Barnett’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is “Lost (And Found Again) in Translation.”
Beth Staples reinvents W&L's Shenandoah magazine with a commitment to diverse voices and intensive collaboration.
Sarah Helms '15 shares her documentary on the beauty and hardships of rural Nepal at the 14th National Symposium of Theater and Performance Arts in Academe.
After spending the summer teaching and exploring in Costa Rica, Taylor Casey '20 can't wait to return.
Caroline Caruso '21 loved Costa Rica so much that she wants to open a medical practice there after graduate school. 
Daniel Rhoades '19 spent the summer immersed in the language and culture of Costa Rica.
Language and culture courses at W&L prepared Marissa Miller '21 for a fun, educational trip to Nicoya, where she met the vice president of Costa Rica (left, center).
The panel discussion, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Who Is America?! A Response to Michael Anton’s Constitution Day Lecture.”
Catherine Savoca ’19 explored the real estate development industry this summer as a sales and marketing intern in Lisbon, Portugal.
The assistant professor of Spanish, who devotes time both inside and outside the classroom to writing and translating poetry, recently compiled a book of poems written by incarcerated undocumented teens.
Ali Greenberg ’13 has opened a flexible workspace and social club in Richmond that emphasizes community for women and gender minorities.
W&L will recognize the outstanding contributions of professors Marjorie Agosín and Harlan Beckley at its 231st commencement.
ODK inducted four honorary and seven student initiates
The title of Radulescu’s talk is: “Dream in a Suitcase: How Literature Saves/Changes Lives.” 
 Jared Shely '18 will use the grant to continue his work teaching English to students in Latin America.
Edwin Castellanos '20 created a system that allows students to save money by borrowing donated textbooks.
In a recent visit to campus, Alisha Laventure ’09, a television news anchor in Dallas, told journalism students about how a national story became personal. 
After Tucker Hall was restored, University Collections of Art & History worked to find the perfect art to adorn its walls — including four bas-relief sculptures that hung on campus more than 100 years ago.
Gay’s poetry often explores questions of race, as well as his symbiotic passions for gardening and community activism.
Rouhi’s talk is titled “A Radical Reassessment of Accepted Wisdom on Miguel de Cervantes' Fiction on Islam.”
Kat Oakley '19 has spent a lot of time contemplating the idea of "place" - both in Lexington and across the world. 
Harleigh Bean ’18 studied in Paris, spent a summer at one of Middlebury's competitive language schools and attended the Public Policy and International Affairs Junior Summer Institute at Princeton University.
The vase, which was made in the city of Deruta, illustrates two main influences on European ceramic design.
Monica Musgrave '18 is already double-majoring, but that didn't stop her from spending six-weeks in England studying two completely different subjects.
The best place to research your thesis? Some would say the library, but for Jacqueline Moruzzi '18 that place is the Cambridge University's Medieval Studies Summer Program.
The award will help to fund a trilingual translation of poetry by Mapuche-Argentine poet Liliana Ancalao.
Professor George Bent and his team of students are working on a digital recreation of Florence that Bent describes as the “project of his career.”
Caroline Rivers test drove her Spanish—and her courage in unfamiliar environments—during a summer teaching gig in Argentina.
Washington and Lee Spanish professor Seth Michelson has compiled a book of poems written by incarcerated undocumented teens and translated by some of his students and him.
W&L presents Cajun-Creole musicians David Greely and Cedric Watson on Oct. 19.
Shadowing doctors in Peru allowed Bryan D'Ostroph '19 to practice his Spanish and firm up future career plans in health care.
Translating Aimé Césaire: A conversation with A. James Arnold and Clayton Eshleman will be held Sept. 19 at 5 p.m. in the CGL.
Through numerous clubs, her classwork and her peers, JoAnn Michel '18 has found a place to grow at W&L.
Julia Poppenberg '19 spent the summer as a translator in Guatemala, helping doctors and patients alike and learning to "talk strong."
Radulescu has received a Fulbright Research Teaching Fellowship to study and teach at the University of Bucharest.
Professor Jeff Barnett publishes a translation of Cuban poetry.
W&L senior Harrison Westgarth has been awarded a Fulbright grant to Brazil, where he will study the “Development of an Animal Model of Direct and Congenital Zika Virus Transmission.”
W&L senior John Dannehl has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain.
MK Moran's work with the LGBTQ Resource Center at Washington and Lee is impacting student perspectives.
Highlights include live performances, including “Exile is My Home” by W&L professor Domnica Radulescu.
For World Thinking Day, W&L's foreign language teaching assistants led local Girl Scouts in a variety of internationally themed activities.
Alvin Carl Hollingsworth was a leading African-American artist whose works can be seen in W&L's Leyburn Library.
Marina Silva, Brazilian environmentalist and politician, will give the keynote at the Brazilian Economy in the 21st Century colloquium.
Anna Piperato, tour guide for Rick Steves’ Europe and a freelance translator, will speak on “The Many Faces of Catherine of Siena: 14th-Century Mystic, Political Activist...Trouble.”
Meet Harrison Westgarth '17, a pre-med varsity athlete with a passion for teaching English for Speakers of Other Languages.
Gwyn E. Campbell, professor of Spanish at Washington and Lee University, is the new associate dean of the college, beginning July 1. She succeeds Marcia France, who has held that post since 2012.
As a student at Washington and Lee, Noelani Love ’05 made jewelry for fun and extra income. Today, she has turned that hobby into a thriving business.
Ricardo Dominguez, American artist and associate professor of visual arts at UC San Diego, will speak on “Disturbance Gestures: Art Between the Lines.”
A discussion of "Gender Shrapnel in the Workplace," mentoring students and supporting W&L athletics.
Washington and Lee University this year welcomes seven foreign language teaching assistants.
Lucía Cespedes is one of seven foreign language teaching assistants at W&L this year.
Camille Bouillon is one of seven foreign language teaching assistants at W&L this year.
Ellen Mayock, Ernest Williams II Professor of Romance Languages and professor of women’s and gender studies at Washington and Lee University, was featured in a recent story in Inside Higher Ed.
The Anne and Edgar Basse Jr. Author Talk Series, presented by the Leyburn University Library at Washington and Lee University, will begin this academic year with a talk by Professor Ellen Mayock on Tuesday, Sept. 20.
Kiki Martire is an English major with a minor in women's and gender studies from Baltimore, Md. A member of the Class of 2015, she traveled abroad to the South Pacific during her junior year.
Myrna Barrera-Torres '15 in Vina del Mar, Chile, and Rome, Italy.
Recipients of W&L's Certificate of International Immersion reflect on their experiences abroad.
Connor Chess '17 spends a summer studying, working and teaching in Costa Rica, thanks to a Wooley Fellowship.
Janey Fugate is a journalism and Romance languages major from Atlanta, Ga. She spent a summer interning as a reporter for El Nuevo Herald, the Spanish language newspaper in Miami.
"W&L is a community that truly enables and encourages students to step outside of their comfort zones."
Cynthia Cheatham '07 finds purpose in a variety of settings as she advocates for underrepresented communities.
Politics and Spanish major Noelle Rutland '17 interns for the Department of Defense.
Biology and Spanish major Harrison Westgarth '17 researches a rare congenital disease at the National Institutes of Health.
Seniors Teddy Corcoran and Stephanie Foster get students from around the country talking about ethics.
ODK National Leader of the Year Paqui Toscano talks about his approach to leadership.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Anna Paden Carson '16 Helps Detained Immigrants Navigate the Immigration System.
Business Administration and Romance Languages Major Carley Sambrook '17 Interns for Michael Kors.
The Long Road to Facebook.
"The university has instilled in me a curiosity that expands beyond the classroom."
"One of my goals is to bring Hillel to the students — to show them that we're here, and that we're here for everyone. ".
Kendrick Award winner Linda Gaida '16 reflects on her experience in the Gila Wilderness of New Mexico.
Shepherd Intern at Tapestri, Inc. in Atlanta.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Romance Languages archive.