Washington and Lee’s Center for International Education awarded deBuchananne funding to study Arabic at the University of Jordan this summer. 
Anthony Edwards’ article focuses on the 19th-century Orientalist Gregory M. Wortabet.
Anthony Edwards illustrates his case study that focuses on Khalīl al-Khūrī, a central figure of the Nahḍa.
Arabic professor Anthony Edwards recently published a paper titled “Becoming the Muʿallim: how tradition and innovation made a Nahḍa icon.”
Washington and Lee's Center for International Education awarded two students funding to study Arabic at the University of Jordan this summer.
Anthony Edwards, Theodore Van Loan and Kameliya Atanasova were featured at the annual event. 
Timothy Lubin and Anthony Edwards both presented at the event held in Berlin earlier this month.
Riter will spend the next academic year volunteering with a community organization, working as an English teaching assistant and taking courses at the University of Graz.
Six undergraduate students received Critical Language Scholarships, which will provide them the opportunity to study language intensively during summer 2022.
Approximately 70% of students participate in an abroad program during their time at W&L.
Arabic professor Anthony Edwards recently published “An Incomplete Journey Away from the Past: The Life and Ideas of Antonius Ameuney (1821–1881).”
Estrada Hamm recently received a David L. Boren Scholarship from the National Security Education Program to study abroad in Jordan.
Tanner Hall ‘21 was recently awarded a fellowship to the Center for Arabic Study Abroad program at the American University in Cairo.
As Executive Committee president for the 2020-21 school year, Chase Calhoun '21 hopes to protect the Honor System and make a positive impact in areas of racial inequality and systemic racism.
Studying philosophy and Arabic, traveling to Morocco and Beirut, and working with Professor Anthony Edwards to translate a Beiruti book have helped Tanner Hall '21 understand and appreciate other cultures.
Laurie Jones '21 is grateful for the opportunities she's had at W&L, especially her place on the golf team and the chance to study through the Peace and Conflict Program in Ireland and Jordan.
 He will be recognized at a luncheon ceremony in Richmond on Nov. 7.
Four Washington and Lee University students are spending time this summer in Beirut, where they are immersed in Arabic language and Lebanese culture.
Syed is a biology major and a Middle East and South Asia studies minor.
Studying Arabic in Jordan and Lebanon has given Sierra Terrana '20 a new outlook on Islam and the Middle East—one that she hopes to parlay into a legal career.
In response to student demand, Washington and Lee University has added three new interdisciplinary minors to enrich its curriculum.
Doan Bui ’21 and Hashim Syed ’19 have won Gilman Scholarships to study abroad.
Senior Stephanie Williams '18 says W&L's First-Generation Low-Income Partnership (FLIP) gave her support to overcome obstacles and mentor other low-income students.
Students, faculty and staff gathered to sample tantalizing treats and learn some Arabic words at this year's event.
Zainab Abiza '19 spent the summer analyzing two Islamic State magazines in a timely project with Professor Seth Cantey.
Alora Martin, who is participating in an intensive language program for Arabic in Amman, Jordan, sees studying abroad as a necessary part of a modern education.
For World Thinking Day, W&L's foreign language teaching assistants led local Girl Scouts in a variety of internationally themed activities.
Fulbright Scholar and foreign language TA Imad Baazizi gave W&L students an introduction to Moroccan culture, including traditional Moroccan tea.
Washington and Lee University this year welcomes seven foreign language teaching assistants.
Imad Baazizi is one of seven foreign language teaching assistants at W&L this year.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Arabic archive.