The project will require periodic modifications to pedestrian and vehicular traffic in the area.
Anne Rodgers '20, '23L writes about her experience using creativity and emotion in her work helping her client seek asylum.
Professor David Baluarte published "Refugees Under Duress: International Law and the Serious Nonpolitical Crime Bar."
Prof. Matt Boaz published "Practical Abolition: Universal Representation as an Alternative to Immigration Detention."
Baluarte’s argument centers on the ability of stateless refugees to seek asylum in the United States and involves a client he has represented for many years, a man named Miliyon Ethiopis.
After graduation, Kat Phillips '20L will be serving a two-year judicial law clerkship with the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) in Falls Church, Virginia through the Department of Justice Honors Program.
Kevin Euceda, a Honduran immigrant seeking safety from persecution in the United States, saw confidential therapy notes used against him in court. Now, legislation has been introduced to stop the practice. 
Student Caseworkers Andrew Salinas '20L and Isabella Gray '20L delivered strong, creative arguments that beat the odds.
Thanks to his first year writing courses, 2L Karlo Goronja was able to make real contributions during his summer internship with the DOJ Executive Office for Immigration Review.
Mimi Miller '21 interviews Jennifer Smyrnos '12L  about practicing immigration law, a career that was inspired in part by her family heritage.
Baluarte was quoted extensively in a Feb. 22 story in the New York Times on the cases of Hoda Muthana and Shamima Begum.
Baluarte's commentary was published in November by openDemocracy.
W&L law students provide legal assistance at the border.
After graduation, Fiorella will work for the York, Pennsylvania Immigration Court as part of the Department of Justice Honors Program.   
Demleitner's opinion piece appeared in the Richmond Times-Dispatch.
3Ls Kendall Manning and Aileen Almonte, student attorneys in the Immigrant Rights Clinic, provide a snapshot into a typical week working in the clinic.
The 2017-2018 Lara D. Gass Symposium will feature a diverse collection of leading scholars and experts on immigration law to discuss emergent legal issues regarding the implementation of the Trump Administration’s policies.
Washington and Lee law student Hollie Webb ‘18L offered her experience representing underage immigrants for a recent media report on conditions at a regional juvenile detention center.
Prof. David Baluarte, along with W&L law students, is working to help DACA beneficiaries and their families understand the immediate impact of the potential end of the program.
The Justices decided Sessions v. Morales-Santana 8-0 in favor of the defendant, and their opinion directly referenced the brief coauthored by Baluarte.
Immigrant Rights Clinic director David Baluarte will present at a hearing of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights to discuss the growth of asylum-free zones.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Immigration Law archive.