The public reading will take place May 1 at 7 p.m. in Northen Auditorium inside Leyburn Library.
Dungy’s public reading will take place Feb. 28 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium inside Leyburn Library.
Booker will give a lecture on Sept. 27 at 5 p.m. in in Leyburn Library’s Northen Auditorium.
She will read from her widely anticipated new novel, “Thistlefoot.”
Hailer will give a public lecture on March 31 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium inside Leyburn Library.
O'Neil will give a public lecture on March 14 at 6 p.m. in the Hillel House sanctuary.
Valencia Robin, an artist and author, will give a public lecture on March 7 at 5 p.m. in the Hillel House Sanctuary.
Poet Sarah Matthes will give a public poetry reading on March 21 at 7:30 p.m. in the Hillel House Sanctuary.
Poets Julie Phillips Brown and Brenna Womer will present a public poetry reading on Feb. 2 at 12:15 p.m. in the Science Center Atrium.
Lexington's Downtown Books will host W&L Professor Domnica Radulescu for a book launch on Jan. 27 at 4:30 p.m.
Miranda was recently awarded the H. Hiter Harris III Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching for 2021.
Eric Tran, a Vietnamese poet and author, will give a public lecture on Nov. 9 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium on the W&L campus.
Professor Lesley Wheeler will give a public author talk on Sept. 22 as part of Randolph College’s Pearl S. Buck Writers in Residence experience.
Professor Chris Gavaler’s play “The Zombie Life” will open at Firehouse Theatre in Richmond, Virginia on Aug. 18.
Gordon Ball will read from his recent book, "My San Francisco," on May 13.
Ramonah Gibson '20 has received a Fulbright United Kingdom (U.K.) Partnership Award to complete her master's degree in creative writing scriptwriting at the University of East Anglia.
Her project, “Age and Growth of Fan Mussel (Pinna nobilis) in Mar Menor,” will take her to Calpe, in Spain this fall.
Kathryn Muensterman ’22 has won a $34,000 Beinecke Scholarship to help fund her graduate studies.
Nadeen Kharputly recently published an article titled "Whose Best Friend? Muslims, Dogs, and the Making of American Humanity."
The community is invited to a virtual talk on April 7 titled "Women in the Arts: Out of the Margins, Into the Light."
Highlights include live performances of works written from artists and scholars nationwide.
Miranda's new poem, "Torch," was selected as the American Academy of Poets' "Poem-a-Day."
The university will host an online poetry reading by eight students in Heid Erdrich’s Master Class in Poetry course on March 15 at 6 p.m.
Taylor Walle, assistant professor of English, recently published an article titled "Boswell's Dictionary and the Status of Scots Dialect in the Eighteenth Century."
Green will receive the Lucille Clifton Legacy Award from St. Mary’s College of Maryland on March 1. 
Poet Heid Erdrich will give a public poetry reading on Feb. 8 at 6 p.m.
Professors Leigh Ann Beavers and Chris Gavaler recently published a textbook titled “Creating Comics: A Writer’s and Artist's Guide and Anthology.”
In the article, Brodie discusses Confederate monuments' complex history and how an American contemporary artist is working to change how others view them.
In honor of the Jewish "New Year of the Trees," W&L Hillel, the Native American Cohort and other campus community members will share poems about beloved lands on Jan. 27.
In the interview, Hill discusses her new appointment as W&L provost, effective July 1, 2021.
The Shenandoah magazine team will host a virtual launch party on Dec. 3 at 7 p.m. to celebrate the newest edition of the magazine, which will be available to the public on Dec. 11.
Domnica Radulescu, the Edwin A. Morris Professor of Comparative Literature at W&L, presents her newest co-edited book, “Voices on the Move: An Anthology by and about Refugees.”
The piece appeared in the June 19 edition of The Washington Post.
Wheeler’s first novel, “Unbecoming,” was recently published just two months after the release of her latest poetry collection, “The State She’s In.”
Working in Italy, starring in theater productions and being involved in Generals' Unity are just a few of the experiences that have made W&L a great fit for Win Gustin '20.
Green was recently interviewed on NPR’s All Things Considered to discuss “The More Extravagant Feast.”
Wheeler discusses tailoring remote instruction to best serve her students. 
A new play by Professor Domnica Radulescu gives voice to local immigrants.
The event is free and open to the public, and books will be available to purchase following the reading.
Quashie teaches black cultural and literary studies at Brown University.
A student-led annual celebration of black literary culture opened the Student Association for Black Unity’s programming for Black History Month at Washington and Lee University.
Joukhadar will read from and discuss his new novel, “The Thirty Names of Night.”
Provost Marc Conner worked with John Callahan, the literary executor of the Ellison estate, to co-edit and publish the collection. 
Students in Leah Green's Intro to Creative Writing course took inspiration from the environment at Boxerwood Nature Center and Woodland Garden.
 “A Literary Field Guide to Southern Appalachia” contains poems from three W&L faculty members.
The public reading is free and open to the public.
Miranda’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “’Coyote Learns a New Trick’: Beth Brant and Two-Spirit Literatures.”
She is the assistant director of the Furious Flower Poetry Center
The duo will be discussing their new book, “Superhero Thought Experiments.”
The reading is free and open to the public, with books for sale following the event.
The talk is free and open to the public.
Conner is provost and the Jo M. and James Ballengee Professor of English at Washington and Lee University. 
In writing the collection, Smith drew from historical sources and used his imagination and empathy to bring voices of the past to life.
Green was recently interviewed on NPR’s Morning Edition for the bicentennial of American poet Walt Whitman’s birth.
Camp’s lecture, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Discovering Baghdad: How Writing My Father’s Story Took Me to the Tigris.” 
Hiromasa says her time at Washington and Lee and various volunteer opportunities she has participated in have prepared her for this next step in her educational journey.
Agrippina has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain.
The weekend’s seminar will feature Delia Owens, author of the critically acclaimed debut novel “Where the Crawdads Sing."
Leah Naomi Green, visiting assistant professor of English at W&L, was selected by Li-Young Lee as the winner of the 2019 Walt Whitman Award.
MaKayla Lorick '19 is collecting oral histories from African-American alumni, faculty and staff as part of a project that aims to include those missing perspectives in Washington and Lee University's history of desegregation and integration.
The title of her talk, which is free and open to the public, is "Exile in Memory."
 Aimee Nezhukumatathil will  give a public reading from her work on Jan. 14 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. 
Beth Staples reinvents W&L's Shenandoah magazine with a commitment to diverse voices and intensive collaboration.
The event is free and open to the public, and books will be available for sale following the reading.
The talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled "Fame and Fortune in the Age of Austen."
Her latest novel, "The Great Believers," was a finalist for the National Book Award in fiction and was one of three finalists for the Pulitzer Prize in fiction.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Midha Ahmad '21 and Sawera Khan '21 to spend the summer in Pakistan, where they compared alternative medicine to traditional treatment.
Professor Ricardo Wilson's Spring Term class spent 10 days writing short fiction at Skylark Nature Preserve and Lodge in Raphine.
The spring issue announces the retirement of R.T. Smith and the hiring of new editor Beth Staples.
ODK inducted four honorary and seven student initiates
This reading is sponsored by the Glasgow Endowment and is free and open to the public.
A reception and book sale will follow the reading, which is free and open to the public.
Tom Wolfe '51 will be in attendance.
Smith has edited Shenandoah since 1995 and received a 2008 Virginia Governor’s Arts Award for publishing excellence. 
Bell is an old-time musician and square dance caller, as well as a poet.
Taylor is the author of two collections of poetry and a chapbook.
Chris Gavaler discussed the paper he co-authored with professor Dan Johnson, The Genre Effect, with The Guardian.
This is Brodie’s third writer’s fellowship this year.
Each year Appalachian State honors distinguished undergraduate or graduate alumni from a department within the college.
Hannah Palmatary '18 spent the summer discovering the ancient ruins of Greece, as well as her own talent and passion for creative writing.
Stewart’s talk will include readings from her poetry collection “Cinder.”
The prize is presented by The Missouri Review for the best short story chosen from their four issues published in the last year.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Creative Writing archive.