The senior thesis exhibition will be on view April 1-12.
After graduating with a double degree in English and studio art, Gabriela Gomez-Misserian ’21 took her talents to Garden & Gun Magazine.
The Elmes Pathfinder Prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
“Mohammad Omer Khalil: Musings,” co-curated by four Washington and Lee students as part of a seminar course in museum studies, will be on display in the Watson Galleries Sept. 28, 2023 through June 1, 2024.
Sandy de Lissovoy was one of 22 fellows to participate in the prestigious residency program at Mt. San Angelo.
The solo exhibition will run from Sept. 4 through Oct. 25 and kicks off the gallery’s fall season.
Emma Steinkraus’ exhibition “Princess Botticelli” opens June 29 at the 1969 Gallery in Tribeca
Melissa Kerin and Barton Myers will each receive $6,000 to support their research projects.
Katie Wall Podracky '05 painted the landscape of more than 40 state parks during the COVID-19 shutdown.
The solo exhibition by sculptor Sam Blanchard is on view until Feb. 8.
A new member of the art faculty, Emma Steinkraus recently completed an exhibition at the Hashimoto Contemporary in Los Angeles.
The show will be on display in Wilson Hall’s Lykes Atrium in conjunction with Esteban Ramón Pérez’s solo exhibition “Distorted Myths,” which will be on view in the Staniar Gallery Oct. 10 through Nov. 2. 
These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university. 
Christine Carr to take part in a yearlong effort with the City of Roanoke Stormwater Utility.
The first of three fall exhibitions at Washington and Lee University’s Staniar Gallery is now open to the public.
Cleveland is working as a trip leader for an active travel company in Alaska this summer, and she plans to work in Europe this fall. 
Sheridan, a business administration and studio art major, will be joining the wealth management team at UBS in New York City.
After her USTA program orientation in September, Shugart will team teach in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
Washington and Lee’s Staniar Gallery presents “Passage,” a retrospective exhibition of paintings celebrating the career of W&L’s Kathleen Olson. There will be a public reception for the show on May 7 at 5 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
The students’ work is on display in Staniar Gallery through April 9.
The show will be on view from Feb. 14 through March 18, and artist Leah Raintree will give a public talk on Feb. 15.
The exhibit reflects on women's right to vote.
The Museums at W&L invite the public to their grand reopening reception on Sept. 24 at 4:30 p.m.
The exhibition is the first comprehensive study of the artist's watercolors.
Professor Christa Bowden presents her newest collaborative art show at Augusta University titled “Cumberland Island: Land, Water, Wind, and Light."
Hostile Terrain 94, a global pop-up exhibit that takes a powerful look at the human cost of undocumented migration at the U.S. southern border, opened at W&L this week after years of planning and collaboration.
Professor Andrea Lepage recently published two essays based on exhibits in W&L's Staniar Gallery.
The exhibit of paintings by Evelyn Dawson, which includes student reflections and a student-curated playlist, is part of Museums at W&L's new Mindfulness Initiative and the 20th anniversary of the Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Program. 
The students’ work will be on display in Staniar Gallery starting March 29.
The April 8 talk is titled "Art as Transformation: Using Photography for Social Change."
The community is invited to a virtual talk on April 7 titled "Women in the Arts: Out of the Margins, Into the Light."
In a recent in-class project, seven W&L students used materials found around campus to discuss a broader historical narrative and create a piece now on display in Staniar Gallery.
Opening Feb. 23, the exhibit will display the Vermont-based artist’s sculptural works. An artist’s talk is scheduled for Feb. 24.
Professors Leigh Ann Beavers and Chris Gavaler recently published a textbook titled “Creating Comics: A Writer’s and Artist's Guide and Anthology.”
Beavers’ exhibit will appear in Washington and Lee's Staniar Gallery from Jan. 17 through Feb. 18, with a virtual artist talk on Jan. 27 at 5:30 p.m. 
The recent graduates’ work will be on display in Lykes Atrium.
The acclaimed group is known worldwide for promoting social justice and human rights for all people and genders. The virtual exhibit and lecture are free and open to the public.
W&L's studio art majors present their senior projects in an online exhibition.
The lecture is free and open to the public.
The artists will give a public presentation, followed by a reception, on Jan. 28 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
King served as a guest curator for an exhibit of six René Magritte paintings, which opened on Dec. 1.
An exhibition of photographic works by Texas-based artist Mari Hernandez will open in Washington and Lee’s Staniar Gallery Nov. 5.
The works will be on display through Nov.1, with an artist’s talk and reception on Oct.16 at 5:30 p.m.
The works will be on display through Sept. 27, with an artist’s talk and reception on Sept. 18. 
Students in the Spring Term course Drawing in Place practice observational drawing in a beautiful setting near Lexington.
 Reese is an English major and studio art minor. 
The show will be on display from April 22–May 24.
Each spring, the W&L art department showcases the senior theses of studio majors in a professional gallery setting.
The artists will present their work in a talk on Feb. 12 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
Max Adler ’04, editorial director at Golf Digest magazine, used golf and art to facilitate the release of a wrongfully convicted man.
The show will be on view Nov. 5 – Dec. 7.
Oring visited W&L in conjunction with her Staniar Gallery exhibit, "Writer's Block."
 The show will be on display Oct. 5 – Nov. 1.
A panel discussion and reception for "The Unfreedom of Expression: Artworks from the Augusta Correctional Center" will take place Sept. 13, but the exhibit will remain on display through Sept. 30.
After taking a course at Augusta Correctional Center, two W&L juniors helped to organize an exhibition at the university featuring artwork by artists who are incarcerated. The exhibit is entitled “Unfreedom of Expression.” 
The show will be on view Sept. 1-30. Oring will give a public artist’s talk on Sept. 26 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
Xinxian Wang '21 was able to marry two interests in an internship with The Visual Arts Center in Richmond.
The $7,000 Virginia Humanities grant will support an upcoming exhibit in Staniar Gallery.
Washington and Lee students partnered with Eagle’s Nest Clubhouse members to create a 32-foot community mural around the theme of recovery.
Ellen Kanzinger '18 provides a snapshot of the many opportunities she had to hone her photography skills at Washington and Lee.
Reese and two friends brought the First-Generation Low-Income Partnership to W&L, where it provides resources and a voice for students.
The show will be on display April 23 – May 24. 
After Tucker Hall was restored, University Collections of Art & History worked to find the perfect art to adorn its walls — including four bas-relief sculptures that hung on campus more than 100 years ago.
Staniar Gallery showcases work by the Art Department’s graduating studio majors.
The interactive exhibit will be on display in Staniar Gallery through March 17.
The William Jefferson Clinton Scholarship will allow Spiezio to attend the American University in Dubai during Winter Term 2018.
A three-month internship with New York-based artist Taryn Simon presented Sara Dotterer '18 with myriad possibilities for her future career.
Mandy Witherspoon ’18 combined her love of art with her expertise in business at the Baltimore Museum of Art.
Olivia Kubli '18's summer volunteer work included photographing lions, giraffes and elephants in Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe.
Elora Fucigna '19 completed an internship in social media and marketing for Ground Floor Farm, an urban farm in her hometown of Stuart, Florida.
Ellen Kanzinger's summer internship allowed her to work on films for the nonprofit GroundTruth Project in Boston, Massachusetts.
Students in Meg Griffith’s Spring Term art class created public works of art to draw attention to important causes in the community.
Amirah S. Ndam Njoya ‘17 believes leadership, travelling, service, and scholarship are all vital parts of the W&L experience.
Every once in a while someone comes along who reminds us that philanthropy is both profoundly creative and simpler than we think. For Eileen Small ’15, being a philanthropist is as simple as taking the ideas you have for how things could be better and doing something about them.
Six Washington and Lee University studio art students will present their senior thesis work in an exhibition at Staniar Gallery that runs from March 27-April 7.
Meet Olivia Sisson, a senior who has wanted to be an artist since she was little - but didn’t know how - about her experience on the Humanities Career Trip to New York.
As a student at Washington and Lee, Noelani Love ’05 made jewelry for fun and extra income. Today, she has turned that hobby into a thriving business.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Studio Art archive.