These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university.
The assistant professor of French will utilize the scholarship to perform research in Paris.
Mohamed Kamara’s book titled “Colonial Legacies in Francophone African Literature” hits bookshelves Dec. 15.
Writer and director LaKeisha Fleming ’95 is the founder of Vision 2:2 Productions.
Collin Frazey ’23 spent his summer working for Meta's intellectual property team in the heart of Silicon Valley.
Margaret Witkofsky '24 is researching grants for the city of Lexington, Virginia through her internship with the Office of Community-Based Learning.
Three members of the Class of 2022 will spend seven months in the Teaching Assistant Program in France (TAPIF) teaching English to public school.
Galvez has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to France, where he will teach English to secondary school students and serve as a cultural ambassador for the United States.
Approximately 70% of students participate in an abroad program during their time at W&L.
The program offers participants the opportunity to work in France for seven months, teaching English to French students of all ages.
Kristina M. Roney, visiting assistant professor of French at W&L, was recently named the incoming finance officer for the SFHS, a three-year term that places her on the society’s Executive Committee.
Next year, he will serve as president of the association, which supports African writers around the world.
Julia Hernandez took a Spring Term class in Ghana and studied abroad in France and Morocco, proving that W&L is a gateway to opportunities all over the globe.
A new play by Professor Domnica Radulescu gives voice to local immigrants.
The focus will be the "1619 Project" and the U.S. Constitution.
The fellowship, made possible by The Lila Wallace – Reader’s Digest Fund, is designed for scholars who explore “Italy in the World.” 
We asked professors to share course materials and discussion questions to offer a sneak peek at the breadth of opportunities available during the best term of the year. 
At Washington and Lee University, Hernandez is majoring in sociology and anthropology and French.
Sarah Helms '15 shares her documentary on the beauty and hardships of rural Nepal at the 14th National Symposium of Theater and Performance Arts in Academe.
Catherine Savoca ’19 explored the real estate development industry this summer as a sales and marketing intern in Lisbon, Portugal.
The best place to research your thesis? Some would say the library, but for Jacqueline Moruzzi '18 that place is the Cambridge University's Medieval Studies Summer Program.
W&L presents Cajun-Creole musicians David Greely and Cedric Watson on Oct. 19.
Translating Aimé Césaire: A conversation with A. James Arnold and Clayton Eshleman will be held Sept. 19 at 5 p.m. in the CGL.
Through numerous clubs, her classwork and her peers, JoAnn Michel '18 has found a place to grow at W&L.
For World Thinking Day, W&L's foreign language teaching assistants led local Girl Scouts in a variety of internationally themed activities.
Washington and Lee University this year welcomes seven foreign language teaching assistants.
Camille Bouillon is one of seven foreign language teaching assistants at W&L this year.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete French archive.