Christy Childs ’26 and Griffin Conti ’26 will receive funding to study foreign languages this summer.
Hongchu Fu offers a look into the Yuan Dynasty under Mongol Rule in “Three Yuan Plays by Yang Zi.”
The Museums at W&L invites visitors to reflect on “Born of Fire: Contemporary Japanese Women Ceramic Artists,” on display through April 29.
Wilkerson received an All-American Attorney Award from the American Mock Trial Association.
The Weinstein Scholar annual program invited students to take a culinary trip around the world without leaving the Washington and Lee campus.
Approximately 70% of students participate in an abroad program during their time at W&L.
A deer figure on display in a new Watson Galleries exhibit, "Auspicious Animals," is an example of the Chinese practice of blending European tastes with encoded symbolic meaning.
Washington and Lee University’s Office of Inclusion and Engagement recently released a video featuring members of W&L’s Asian and Pacific Islander community, calling on the world to notice, and end, incidents of hate.
Thanks to an exchange program funded by the Japanese government, a group of W&L students spent Washington Break immersed in the culture of Japan—and welcomed Kanazawa University students to W&L one month later.
The Elizabeth Lewis Otey Professor of East Asian Studies takes a bug-eyed view of history.
W&L's Chanoyu Tea Society will host their annual Martin Luther King, Jr. tea ceremony on Jan. 21
This elegant bowl, which is part of W&L's Reeves Collection, can be traced back to the Opium War of 1839-1842.
Dr. Ling-ting Chiu, a Fulbright Scholar and assistant professor of history at Soochow University in Taiwan, spent the summer at Washington and Lee studying the works of former W&L professor and artist Professor I-Hsiung Ju.
The conference brings more than 65 students to Lexington from Aug. 12-17 and includes two public events.
The title of Bello’s talk is: “A Bug-eyed View of Environmental History.”
Rouhi’s talk is titled “A Radical Reassessment of Accepted Wisdom on Miguel de Cervantes' Fiction on Islam.”
The interactive exhibit will be on display in Staniar Gallery through March 17.
Higgins will perform pieces by Henry Purcell, Franz Schubert, Gabriel Fauré, Gian Carlo Menotti and others.
W&L's Chanoyu Tea Society will host their second annual Martin Luther King, Jr. tea ceremony on Jan. 15
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Xiaoxia Yin '20 and Sesha Carrier '20 to study traditional folk singing in China.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation sent Trang Duong '20 and Hannah Denham '20 to Vietnam, where they had enlightening interviews with both men and women about marriage in modern Vietnamese society.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Tiffany Ko '20 and Jiwon Kim '20 to study religion in South Korea during summer 2017.
Colonel Chris Goff, U.S. Marine liaison to the Japan Self Defense Forces, will speak on “Japan and East Asian Security Challenges.”
For World Thinking Day, W&L's foreign language teaching assistants led local Girl Scouts in a variety of internationally themed activities.
In the first installment of our new series, Ron Fuchs tells the story behind a 4,000-year-old jar in Watson Pavilion.
As superintendent of Cumberland Gap National Historical Park, Sula Jacobs ’00 enthusiastically promotes the virtues of the National Park Service, which turned 100 years old this year.
Washington and Lee University this year welcomes seven foreign language teaching assistants.
Michika Nakada is one of seven foreign language teaching assistants at W&L this year.
Mengsu Kong is one of seven foreign languaga teaching assistants on the W&L campus this year.
Dr. Gregory Kulacki, the China project manager and senior analyst in the Global Security Program of the Union of Concerned Scientists, will lecture at Washington and Lee on Oct. 10 at 5 p.m. in Elrod Commons 345. The title of the talk, which is free and open to the public, is “The Risk of Nuclear War between the United States and China.”
Studying and Teaching the Japanese Way of Tea.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete East Asian Studies archive.