The Critical Language Scholarship Program funds a summer of overseas language and cultural immersion.
Frederick will serve as co-presenter for a session that demonstrates the beneficial uses of technology in the curriculum mapping process.
A four-person team comprised of John Schleider ‘24, Diwesh Kumar ‘24, Bradford Bush ’25 and Drew Thompson ‘25 claimed the $3,000 top prize for their pitch on CVS Health.
Jessica Pachuca ’25 and Gabe Miller ’25 will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Carnegie Mellon University this summer.
Peter Grajzl is the John F. Hendon Professor of Economics.
Rubel’s lecture will be held in Northen Auditorium on Feb. 22 at 5:30 p.m.
A global politics and economics double major, Dantini found his ‘home’ on campus with the University Singers.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Five-Star Distinguished Alumni Award winners
Newly promoted faculty members will present their research in a PechaKucha format on Jan. 30.
Alam will speak on Feb. 16 at 4 p.m. as part of the W&L/VMI Economics Seminar Series.
Grajzl’s talk “An Economist’s Walk Through English Legal and Cultural History” will be held on Jan. 25 in Northen Auditorium.
The Williams School and Department of Economics provided the opportunity for students to network and explore careers in the field of economics.
Art Goldsmith will deliver the fall lecture for the Richmond Association of Business Economics and the Virginia Association of Economists on Oct. 27.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Young Alumni Award winners
Harris Hubbard ’23 will attend graduate school at Rutgers University Business School before joining Wells Fargo as an investment banking analyst.
Linda Hooks’ comments were featured regarding the stubborn phase of inflation cooling.
For Tilbor, W&L instilled a healthy curiosity and a lifelong love of learning.
Niels-Hugo Blunch was selected for the post at the organization’s annual meeting last month.
Jana Hulsey ’25 and Jalen Todd ’25 will work with programs in Washington, D.C. for eight weeks over the summer. 
Barringer appreciates the learning experience he gained during his summer internship, both professionally and personally. 
Lowry taught at W&L for more than 35 years.
Jackson Flower will share his research at The Virginia Commonwealth University on April 7.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Alumni Award winners
Professor Blunch’s talk will be held in Northen Auditorium on March 29.
Philip Jefferson’s talk in Stackhouse Theater on March 27 is free and open to the public.
Scott Holcomb ’23 and Josh Fingerhut ’24 claimed a $2,500 prize for their pitch on Diamondback Energy.
Oluwakuyide will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at the University of Washington this summer.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Five-Star Distinguished Alumni Awards winners
John W. Schindler will serve a five-year renewable contract with the organization that promotes international financial stability.
The scholarship provides young scholars with an immersive experience in Asia through which they can learn to "be comfortable being uncomfortable." 
Enrico de Alessandrini ’84, P’23 is the owner of award-winning Sassaia Winery.
Etter plans to attend graduate school and pursue a career in mathematics.
New members will serve a six-year term supporting Dean Rob Straughan and the school’s faculty members.
Professors Emily Landry and Jim Casey both spoke at the workshop held in Havana.
Chantal Smith, assistant professor of economics, was selected for the one-year position to pursue research and course development.
Lozinskaya, a 2022 graduate, will receive a master’s degree in global affairs from Tsinghua University in China.
Katie Shester is an associate professor of economics and a core faculty member for the Shepherd Program for the Interdisciplinary Study of Poverty and Human Capability, as well as Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies.
Art Goldsmith is completing his one-year term as president of the Southern Economic Association.
Center announces new personnel, supports research opportunities and introduces programs for the campus community.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Young Alumni Award winners
Alice Tianbo Zhang’s research is being used to shed light on the impact of the pandemic on business activities in Indian Country.
Peter Grajzl named a 2022 winner of the Elinor Ostrom Prize.
Erin Gray helped form and reported the results from a collaborative work group
Ponce de Leon's paper "Women Want an Answer! Field Experiments on Elected Officials and Gender Bias" was featured in the Harvard Gendar Action Portal
By his sophomore year at W&L, McPheeters knew he wanted to go into investment banking after graduation. Today, he works as an investment banking analyst in Houlihan Lokey's Industrials group in New York City.
As director, Loar is responsible for the management and administration of the program
Diwesh Kumar ’24 is developing investment banking expertise at his summer internship at Boxwood Partners in Richmond, Virginia. 
Burden is taking her talents to New York City to work in strategic planning at advertising agency BBDO.
Alice Tianbo Zhang's research on energy access was featured in the June 16 edition of Nature Energy
Peter Grajzl has been named a finalist for the 2022 Elinor Ostrom Prize for two articles he co-authored in 2020. 
Kingwill has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Uzbekistan. He will depart in September 2022 for his 10-month program. 
After her USTA program orientation in September, Joey Dickinson will be teaching in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
The Williams School congratulates the Class of 2022 graduates who received awards and honors for academic excellence during their time at W&L.
Launched this year, the ECON 271 Peer Tutors program is a weekly drop-in option for students looking for a deeper understanding of course material through interactions with their peers.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Johnston was recently awarded a fellowship to the Center for Arabic Study Abroad at the American University in Cairo.
Chantal Smith, assistant professor of economics at Washington and Lee University, was recently elected to the Executive Board of Directors for the National Economic Association (NEA).
Zhang's paper is titled, "Electoral Backlash or Positive Reinforcement? Wind Power and Congressional Elections in the United States."
The spring event is scheduled for Friday and Saturday, April 29-30 on campus.
The book will prove invaluable in helping students gain a better understanding of the theory and practice of environmental and natural resource economics.
Professor Shikha Silwal's paper discusses looting and destruction of cultural heritage sites and objects during epochs of violence.
Davies' public lecture was titled "The Path to Kina Convertibility: Foreign Exchange Market of Papua New Guinea."
Davies' paper examines recent conditions in Papua New Guinea’s foreign exchange market.
Under the Ted DeLaney Postdoctoral Program, Washington and Lee University is welcoming new faculty each year from underrepresented groups. 
Hooks was quoted in a recent Business Interview article titled “Monetary Policy: How the Federal Reserve Attempts to Control the US economy."
The Lewis Whitaker Adams Professor of Economics Emeritus was 97.
Sakshi Upadhyay joined the Economics Department as a visiting assistant professor in fall 2021.
Davies work looks at the setting of exchange rates in resource-rich developing countries.
Assistant Professor of Economics Mario Negrete joined the W&L Economics Department in fall of 2021.
A year after graduating, Tim Pierce ’20 uses data science to map job skills in Appalachian labor markets.
Camilo Alvarez joined Washington and Lee University as the Ted DeLaney Postdoctoral Fellow in Economics in fall 2021.
Assistant Professor Chantal Smith joined the Economics Department in fall 2021.
Professor Linda Hooks discusses personal loans in a recent WalletHub article.
Watt has received a Fulbright grant to support his research on the importance of small-scale fishing for livelihoods, culture and well-being in Vanuatu, an island nation in the South Pacific. 
The faculty and staff of the Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics congratulate our 2021 graduates who have received awards and honors for academic excellence during their time at W&L.
Shikha Silwal recently published "The Economics of Conflict and Peace."
Johnston has won a Gilman Scholarship to study abroad with Middlebury Abroad at Mohammed V University in Rabat, Morocco.
John Juneau ’18 and Amanda Wahlers ’18 have received pre-doctoral graduate research fellowships from the National Science Foundation. The five-year fellowships include three years of financial support and a cost of education allowance.
The “Virginia Tech Coffee with the Chair” series features experts sharing their experiences and successes in economics.
Professor Martin Davies recently consulted on exchange rate policy for the Papua New Guinea Treasury and published his work in a discussion paper.
Tim Diette discussed his new journal article, “Does the Negro Need Separate Schools? A Retrospective Analysis of the Racial Composition of Schools and Black Adult Academic and Economic Success,” in Scienmag and The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
Rafay Hassan '22 was looking for a liberal arts university that would give him individualized attention and put his critical thinking skills to the test. He found that and more at W&L. 
Linda M. Hooks was featured in a recent Wallet Hub article titled "2021's Best & Worst Cities at Money Management."
W&L has allowed Christopher Watt '21 to meet other members of the community and find a future career where three of his passions converge.
At Pfizer, Michael Benigno ’00 analyzed COVID-19 clinical data in the quest to develop a vaccine and antiviral therapy.
Earlier this month, economics professor Peter Grajzl gave an online presentation for the University of Oxford titled "A machine-learning history of English case law and legal ideas before the Industrial Revolution."
When her Critical Language Scholarship to China went virtual because of COVID, Kisker '21 got a six-week sampler of the country and its language through her computer screen.
His one-year term as the organization's president will start November 2021.
W&L Professor of Economics Hugo Blunch published an article with the IZA Institute of Labor Economics.
Matt Bartini ’12 offers favorite scenes of W&L on his custom shirts.
The Entrepreneurship Summit will take place online on Friday and Saturday, Oct. 2–3.
Blunch served as the lead consultant on a Ghana case study for the World Bank's new index
Nick Watson '22 is spending the summer working on housing issues as part of his Shepherd internship with the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity in Vermont.
Bridget Bartley '21 interviews Shiri Yadlin '12, director of Just Homes, a nonprofit that helps faith communities address homelessness in D.C.
Keller has received a USTA position with Fulbright Austria starting in October 2020.
At W&L, Katherine Ingram '20 found a research interest—and a future profession—where environmental studies meets economics.
Peccie’s award is part of ODK’s 2020 General Russell E. Dougherty National Leader of the Year Competition.
Recipients of the John M. Gunn International Scholarship met with its namesake in February and shared how the program has made a difference in their lives.
Linda Hooks, professor of economics and head of the W&L Economics Department, was interviewed by the News-Gazette.
Art Goldsmith was featured on the Morning Brew podcast “Business Casual”
This summer, Sezen will receive two months of intensive training with leading faculty at Michigan State University in microeconomics, math, econometrics and research methods.
Will Bolton '20 has made the most of his college years by serving as president of the Executive Committee, doing ROTC training at VMI, traveling to Germany and interning for a U.S. Senator.
Robinson ’94 joined the W&L Board of Trustees on Feb. 14.
 In 2021, students will have the opportunity to study in Ghana for both Winter and Spring Terms.
W&L hosted “The Economics of Foreign Aid” discussion colloquia in collaboration with the Institute for Human Studies (IHS) at George Mason University.
Attendees will discover the technology, insights and trends shaping the future of data and analytics.
Kahn has been invited to give the opening keynote speech at the Exposition of Sustainability of the Industrial Pole of Manaus.
Rigorous academics and a nationally ranked soccer program made W&L an ideal fit for Danny Tran '21.
Casey was appointed by Virginia Governor Ralph Northam.
The conference provides undergraduate economics students with information on a range of career paths open to them after graduation.
 Papers included in the journal focus on a range of topics that speak to various disciplines.
The event, which is free and open to the public, is titled "The Future of the Amazon Rain Forest."
Davies was recently interviewed on ABC Radio Australia about his current research.
For students like Lourdes Arana '21, the London Internship Program combines course work, internships and alumni support to create an unforgettable educational experience.
The scholarship is named after Kenneth Ruscio ’76, Washington and Lee University president emeritus and ODK’s national president from 2002-06. 
Wenle Mu '20 describes a typical week of living in Australia as a student in the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program.
W&L courses in economics and biology used community-based learning to engage in partnerships and make an impact on food insecurity at a local level.
Blunch will visit the Economics Department in the Business School of Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul.
While at Washington and Lee, Lencioni has taken several German classes and studied abroad in Berlin.
Hiromasa says her time at Washington and Lee and various volunteer opportunities she has participated in have prepared her for this next step in her educational journey.
Layne Setash '19 recently earned a Distinguished Teacher Award from the Virginia Association of Colleges of Teacher Education.
Xinxian Wang '21, a student at Washington and Lee University, has won a $10,000 Davis Projects for Peace grant.
The PPIA fellowship program helps students achieve a master’s or joint degree, typically in public policy, public administration, international affairs or a related field.
His statement was given at a public hearing at the EPA headquarters in Washington, D.C. on Mon., Mar. 18.
Claire Mackin '20 shares her experiences in Sydney as part of the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program.
Yeboah's talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Africa Economic Transformation: The Role of Youth.”
As part of the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program, Mariam Samuel '20 is taking courses at the University of Sydney and interning at Wheatley Wealth Management.
Margaret Kallus ’19 will be the second W&L alumna to join a team of economists at the Harvard University research institute, Opportunity Insights.
In the Feb 5. op-ed, Strong examines Trump's "norm-shattering presidential behaviors."
 In her speech, which is free and open to the public, Mourao will discuss the role news organizations play, not only in spinning news, but also in legitimizing topics and people.
Washington and Lee University’s Martin Davies, associate professor of economics, was appointed a member of the Fulbright Specialist Program for three years.
Bob Strong's piece was published on Dec. 9 in The Virginian-Pilot.
Abiza will receive a master’s degree in global affairs from Tsinghua University in China.
 Zainab Abiza ’19 studied at Princeton and spent time in Rabat, Morocco, with a Davis Projects for Peace grant. This semester, she's working to expand her Davis project.
Balen Essak '20 interviews Maisie Osteen '14L about her experiences with the Shepherd Program and as an assistant public defender.
A philanthropic twist on AirBnB, W&L's Habitat Hotel raises thousands for much-needed affordable housing in Rockbridge.
Working in South Africa gave Will Hardage '20 a chance to combine his economics major and his poverty studies minor.
W&L students Graham Novak '19 and Mourad Berrached '20 won a $15,000 prize at the 2018 Schulze Entrepreneurship Challenge. 
In a Roanoke Times piece, Silwal discusses current events and the impact they bear on children.
Danielle Spickard '19 is taking full advantage of what the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program has to offer.
Strong is the William Lyne Wilson Professor in Political Economy at Washington and Lee.
Elizabeth Oliver will assume the role of associate dean beginning July 1.
With the support of teammates, professors and friends, Nicholas George '18 was able to balance two majors and a spot on the basketball team.
Blunch recently attended the 7th annual meeting of Danish Academic Economists in North America (DAEiNA) at Princeton University. This year, he was able to fully enjoy the program as a participant, rather than as an organizer.
While studying in Sydney, Bradley Callaham '19 interns at LINK, the world’s largest international business brokerage firm.
As she prepares to work for the Equality of Opportunity Project, Amanda Wahlers '18 is grateful for the education, opportunities and research experience she has had in Lexington.
Carson Bryant '18 has been awarded a Fulbright grant for an English Teaching Assistantship in Germany.
Soon Ho spends his days in Australia studying at the University of Sydney and interning at Greencross Limited, Australia's largest pet care company.
She will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton followed by a service project in Morocco.
A group of five W&L students, along with Linda Hooks, Professor of Economics and Head of the Economics Department, recently attended the Annual Conference of Undergraduate Women in Economics at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Campaign.
Joseph Guse, John C. Winfrey Associate Term Professor of Economics, will give a talk in honor of his professorship on Tues., April 3 at 5:00 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. 
Timothy Diette, associate dean of the Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics and the Harry E. and Mary Jayne W. Redenbaugh Term Associate Professor of Economics at Washington and Lee University, has been named senior advisor to the president for strategic analysis, effective July 1.
Teresa Aires Rodrigues is spending her winter term in Sydney, Australia.
Peyton Powers '18 says studying poverty has helped him understand that "humans cannot be divorced from the dignity that is concomitant to life."
Dr. Jeffrey Lacker, former CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, will give the H. Parker Willis Lecture in Political Economy.
Graham Novak '19 may only be a junior at W&L, but he has already lined up a job — at his own company. 
Economics professor Peter Grajzl will give a talk titled "A Structural Topic Model of the Features and the Cultural Origins of Bacon's Ideas."
Economics professor Art Goldmsith was recently interviewed by the American Economic Association.
Laura Stagno '18 saw the faces of America's future leaders, including her own, through an internship on Capitol Hill.
Caroline Blackmon interned this summer with The Dunwoody Crier in Georgia.
Hillberry's talk is titled “Trade Facilitation: The Nitty Gritty of Cross-Border Trade.”
As a summer counselor with the nonprofit Camp Fire Alaska, Chase Wonderlic '18 got in touch with his inner child and his adventurous spirit.
Over Reading Days, 19 students and five faculty and staff members traveled to Washington, DC to explore the theme: “What can you do with an econ major?”.  
Anna Milewski '18 has spent time in fields, labs, carpenter shops and seminar rooms - and it was all part of one internship at the home of George Washington.
Lorena Hernandez Barcena '19 had an eye-opening summer internship with Harlem Children’s Zone, an education nonprofit in New York.
Martin Davies, Associate Professor of Economics at Washington and Lee University, gave the keynote address at the Certified Practising Accountants (CPA) Papua New Guinea Annual Conference in Lae, PNG on August 22. His talk was titled “Policy in Papua New Guinea: Recent Shocks, New Directions.”
W&L’s Grajzl Discusses “Courts and the Economy” in a recent podcast for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Jack Miller '19 has spent his summer in the bush of South Africa, learning about wildlife and conservation - and having a few close calls in the field.
Andre Zeromski '20 has been selected from a group of finalists for the Class of 2020 of the prestigious Kemper Scholars Program.
The Roanoke Times profiled graduating senior Matt Carl in today's commencement story.
JASC is a student-exchange program, initiated in 1934 by university students concerned by the breakdown of bilateral relations prior to World War II.
Whether they were doing service work in Birmingham, touring firms in NYC, or climbing an ice-encrusted mountain in New Hampshire, Washington and Lee students made the most of Washington Break.
Mike Smitka, Professor of Economics at W&L, talked to NPR's Marketplace about NAFTA and auto parts.
Bren Flanigan ’16 shares his economic skills and American culture as a Peace Corps volunteer.
Diane Whitmore Schanzenbach, associate professor of education and social policy at Northwestern University and director of The Hamilton Project, will speak on “The Causes and Consequences of Food Insecurity.”
A multi-disciplinary Community-Based Research project gave Washington and Lee University students a chance to help local organizations take a closer look at access to affordable healthy food.
Professor Tim Diette testified before the Canadian House of Commons’ Standing Committee on Human Resources, Skills and Social Development and the Status of Persons with Disabilities.
Meet Graham Novak '19, an aspiring - and already accomplished - entrepreneur
As superintendent of Cumberland Gap National Historical Park, Sula Jacobs ’00 enthusiastically promotes the virtues of the National Park Service, which turned 100 years old this year.
Children’s author, educator and social activist will discuss “Education, Poverty and Social Justice in an Age of Persistent Inequality.”
Washington and Lee faculty participated in a panel discussion on Thursday, Nov. 17, discussing the 2016 election from a variety of perspectives.
Bonner Scholar Peyton Powers helps to plan the Fall Bonner Congress Meeting, taking place on W&L's campus Oct. 14-16.
American students traveled abroad with international students for summer projects they created together. .
Denis “Pepe” Estrada Hamm and Jason Renner, both sophomores at Washington and Lee University, spent Sept. 13-15 at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s Public Policy Conference in Washington, D.C.
Sophomores Pepe Estrada and Jason Renner participate in public policy discussions at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s Public Policy Conference in Washington, D.C.
Timothy Diette, Redenbaugh Associate Professor of Economics at Washington and Lee University, weighs in on the debate over free college in WalletHub.
"Being abroad for so long really changed my perspective on many aspects of W&L, and made me appreciate it so much more."
Recipients of W&L's Certificate of International Immersion reflect on their experiences abroad.
Economics professor returns to childhood home of Papua New Guinea to study the economics of resource-rich developing countries.
Emma Busse is a sociology and economics major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Charleston, W.Va. A member of the Class of 2015, she spent a summer in Camden, N.J., as a Shepherd Intern with the Cooper's Ferry Partnership, development firm that uses a multi-faceted approach to make Camden a better place to live, work, and invest.
"The relationships I have made and strengthened while volunteering over the course of my time in Lexington are more important to me than I could have imagined."
"We often do not realize the opportunities afforded to us as students at this prestigious university tucked away in such a beautiful town."
Haley Miller '16, a lifelong lover of sports, works as a marketing intern for Adidas.
"It is the strength of community and society that really makes W&L more than simply another great university."
"A liberal arts education hones transferable skills."
Johnson Opportunity Grant winner connects interests in economics and art history at famed auction house.
Senior Xiaoxiang Yang gets a taste of the consulting world with The Brattle Group.
The Long Road to Facebook.
"Both my academic and extracurricular involvement have fostered an interest in entrepreneurship, which has led me to work for a startup through Venture for America next year."
Kate LeMasters is a politics and economics major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Abilene, Texas. She studied global health and development policy in Geneva, Switzerland and Rabat, Morocco, with SIT Study Abroad.
The return of students in the fall elicits mixed emotions. We feel the absence of those who have moved on even as we welcome the fresh and eager, first-year (FY) students.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Economics archive.