The former executive director of ArtPower at the University of California, San Diego will begin his new role in July.
Lynch’s soprano recital will be held on April 6 at 8 p.m.
A meeting with a Broadway legend allowed engineering major Zaria Daniels ’26 to take her vocal talents to Cuba.
Kogan’s piano recital will be held on March 24 at 3 p.m.
Thomas’s piano recital will be held on March 29 at 8 p.m.
Chris Dobbins officially assumed the position at the organization’s 2024 conference last month.
The iconic myth comes to life March 21-22 in Wilson Concert Hall.
Hart’s violin recital will be held on March 17 at 3 p.m.
The ensemble concludes a performance tour with its March 5 concert at the Lenfest Center.
The March 12 performance in Wilson Concert Hall will feature W&L’s University Singers, Glee Club and Cantatrici.
Cohen’s talk, “Music as Witness: a Composer Commemorates the Holocaust,” will be held at 4 p.m. on Feb. 13 in Hillel 101.
The W&L faculty duo will perform on Feb. 18 at 3 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
The Feb. 11 performance will be followed by a reception.
Tickets to the Dec. 4-5 performances can be obtained with a non-perishable food donation to benefit Campus Kitchen at W&L.
’Tis the season for holiday events on campus and in the local community! Check out what’s happening and make your plans to ring in the holiday season.
The ensemble will perform Nov. 11 at 7:30 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
The performance in Wilson Concert Hall will feature W&L’s University Singers, Glee Club and Cantatrici.
Kick off the 2023-24 season with W&L’s choral ensembles on Oct. 6 at 8 p.m. and instrumental ensembles on Oct. 7 at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
Tickets for the entire season will be available to purchase beginning Sept. 11.
The faculty duo will perform at W&L’s Lenfest Center on May 14.
The Beinecke Scholarship Program provides funds for post-graduate study to students of unusual promise.
McLaughlin ’23 will present his senior voice recital on March 31 at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
Performance will take place April 3 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center’s Wilson Concert Hall.
The March 23 program will feature the winner of this year’s concerto-aria contest.
The ensemble will perform at W&L’s Lenfest Center on March 19.
Student ensembles explore the hero’s journey at the March 14 performance.
The show runs from March 9-11 in Keller Theatre on the W&L Campus.
The ensemble concludes its global tour with its Feb. 28 concert at the Lenfest Center.
The cellist’s three-day residency is sponsored by the Concert Guild.
The recital will be held in person and via Livestream on Feb. 5 at 3 p.m.
Ledesma’s voice recital will be held in person and via Livestream on Jan. 29 at 3 p.m.
W&L’s choral conducting mentorship program helps students find and follow their passions through music and mentorship.
Tickets for the ensemble’s Jan. 21 performance can be ordered online or at the box office.
No tickets are required for the Dec. 2 performance in Wilson Concert Hall.
’Tis the season for holiday events on campus and in the local community! Check out what’s happening and make your plans to ring in the holiday season.
 Tickets to the Dec. 5-6 event may be obtained by trading a non-perishable food item to benefit Campus Kitchen at W&L.
University Singers placed third in the festival’s International Open Competition and received the prestigious Visit Derry Award for their final performance.
The showcase is at 8 p.m. Thursday, Nov. 10 in the Wilson Concert Hall.
Watch the concert at 8 p.m. Monday, Nov. 7 in the Wilson Concert Hall.
The concert is at 3 p.m. Sunday, Nov. 6 in the Wilson Concert Hall.
The faculty recital is scheduled for Oct. 30 at 3 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
Tickets are free, but required for the performance, which will take place at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall. 
The University Singers have been selected as a finalist for an International Competition in Ireland.
Tickets are not required, and a reception will follow the performance.
Join members of the W&L choral program for a Parents and Family Weekend choral concert on Sept. 30, at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
For the first time ever, tickets for the entire season are available online beginning Sept. 13. 
Kristina Ayers '25 is interning at a medical clinic for the homeless in Washington, D.C. through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty.
The May 11 recital in the Wilson Concert Hall will focus on musical associations from Venice.
The recital is April 3 at 3 p.m. in Wilson Hall.
The band will perform for the last time this academic year on April 7 at 8 p.m. in Wilson Hall on the W&L campus.
Chancy’s saxophone recital is free and open to the public to view in person or via Livestream on April 1 at 8 p.m.
Thomas will showcase her skills on violin, viola and voice on March 25 at 8 p.m.
The show is free and open to the public.
 The tour program will feature various works, from choral classics by Sebastian Bach and Josef Rheinberger to ethereal modern music on April 5.
The show is free and open to the public.
Pianist Vadym Kholodenko will perform on Feb. 12 at 8 p.m. in the Wilson Concert Hall.
Assistant Professor Akiko Konishi joined the Music Department in 2021.
W&L presents the Zukerman Trio on Jan. 23 at 3 p.m. Tickets are required.
Through her coaching business, Shana Horrigan ’91 works with clients of all ages, in the U.S. and across the globe, who feel they are at a turning point in their lives. 
Performance at the VMEA conference is the highest honor for a university  choir student in Virginia. This is the second time W&L has made VMEA.
Join the University Orchestra on Nov. 18 for a performance titled “What’s Old is New Again.”
W&L’s Marlbrook Chamber Players will present a public concert on Nov. 14 at 3 p.m.
 Tickets to the Dec. 6-7 event may be obtained by trading a non-perishable food item to benefit Campus Kitchen at W&L.
Washington and Lee will present a joint concert featuring the University Jazz Ensemble and the Vosbein Magee Big Band on Nov. 11 at 8 p.m.
 The all-female jazz quintet “Sheroes” will present a free concert on Nov. 6 at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
"The Poet's Echo: A Gothic Romance” is scheduled for Oct. 31 at 3 p.m. Audience members are encouraged to come in costume for the hour-long program.
The performance marks the first public choral concert on campus since March 2020.
Ashley Killam will present a lecture titled “Fanfare for the Unheard: Diversifying Stands and Creating Inclusive Repertoire.”
McCorkle will perform at Lexington Presbyterian Church on Sept. 19 at 3 p.m. No tickets are required.
No tickets are required for the Sept. 17 performance in Wilson Concert Hall.
The public recital, “Musical Innovators: Prokofiev and Shostakovich,” is scheduled for Sept. 12 at 3 p.m. in the Wilson Concert Hall.
Terry Vosbein, professor of music at W&L, was inspired by the 9/11 attacks to compose an original song, "A Prayer for Peace."
Paige Anderson '22 is spending the summer recording an album of classical violin music in memory of her grandmother.
The May 25 event is free and open to the public to view online.
Lebsack will perform a virtual organ concert via livestream on May 18 at 7 p.m.
The W&L community is invited to an in-person concert on May 4.
The duet consists of Julia Goudimova and Anna Billias, who both serve as lecturers in the Washington and Lee Music Department.
The University Singers will compete virtually on May 1.
On May 15, Robert Masi ’21 will perform solo piano masterworks by Chopin, Beethoven, J.S. Bach, Ravel and Bloch.
On May 23, Chad Thomas’21 will present a graduation piano recital featuring George Gershwin’s monumental work, “Rhapsody in Blue,” and other pieces.
On May 1, Petzold will perform an expansive variety of clarinet works.
On April 3 at 8 p.m., Fuller will showcase her insight and creativity in a series of original compositions performed by W&L student performers.
Song will perform selections by composers J. S. Bach, Antonín Leopold Dvořák, Dmitri Shostakovich and James Stephenson for her senior cello recital on April 2 at 8 p.m.
The W&L community is invited to an in-person concert on April 8.
On March 26, Gonzalez will perform selections by composers Domenico Scarlatti, Gabriel Fauré, Manuel de Falla and others.
The W&L community is invited to an in-person outdoor concert on April 5.
Students and faculty in the W&L Music Department refused to let COVID-19 silence them, instead embracing creative protocols to continue making music together in person.
The March 21 show is free and open to the public to view online.
The university’s performance will be streamed online beginning March 30.
On March 5, nine W&L music students will present a recital of songs and arias in Spanish.
On March 7, Lebsack will perform selections by George Frideric Handel, Franz Schubert, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Francis Poulenc and others.
The winner of the 16th International Choral Competition – Gallus-Maribor automatically qualifies for the European Grand Prix of Choral Singing Competition in 2022.
The concert is free and open to the public to view online.
The show is free and open to the public to view online.
The show is free and open to the public.
The virtual performance will be available to watch via livestream on Nov. 7 at 8 p.m. 
Guitarist Bhattacharya, who brings universal appeal to his pioneering fusion of classical Indian ragas and bluesy Western music, will perform on Nov. 14 at 7:30 p.m.
The show is free and open to the public to view online.
The virtual performance, which is free and open the public, will be available to view via Livestream.
At W&L, Katherine Ingram '20 found a research interest—and a future profession—where environmental studies meets economics.
Eight of the 23 students enrolled in music instructor Shuko Watanabe Petty’s Piano I and II classes had no piano at home. When instruction went online, she found a way to help.
Final performances of "Considering Matthew Shepard" had to be canceled because of COVID-19, but the University Singers will never forget the powerful experience of telling Shepard's story.
No tickets are required.
W&L presents a faculty recital featuring Julia Goudimova on cello and Anna Billias on piano in an evening of romantically inclined music of Nordic countries.
“Considering Matthew Shepard” tells the now infamous true story and aftermath of the kidnapping, torture and murder of Matthew Shepard near Laramie, Wyoming, in 1998. Tickets are required for the performance.
Having played in every kind of venue imaginable, from coffee houses to world-class concert halls, Haimovitz creates music for every kind of audience.
Tickets are not required.
The concert is free, and no tickets are required.
The concert is free and open to the public, and a reception will follow the performance.
Drum Tao’s stage is created through performances and expressions consisting of “Wadaiko-drums.”
The Grammy Award-winning male a cappella group is in its 41st season.
The event is free and open to the public.
Allie Jue '20 has learned how to keep her studies in music and pre-med in perfect harmony with a job and extracurricular activities at W&L.
The concert is free, and no tickets are required.
This concert is free and open to the public. No tickets are required.
The show is free and open to the public.
The performance will be dedicated to the memory of Dymphna Alexander.
Tickets are free, but required.
In the spirit of Halloween, Thorburn and Wappel will create a musical soundscape inspired by the legends, literature and classic films of the season.
The concert is free and open to the public, and no tickets are required. 
Tickets are free but required, and they are offered first to W&L parents and family.
The program will include 14 works, all of which were performed by Gaylard in recitals between 1987 and 2017.
The concert at W&L will focus on nationalism in music.
 The group will light up the stage with their traditionally Zimbabwean music ranging from genres such as Afro Jazz and Gospel music. 
The concert is free and open to the public, and no tickets are required.
Although W&L has produced student-cast operas in the past, this is the first time students have been able to enroll in a credit-bearing opera workshop.
All three shows are free and open to the public, and no tickets are required.
We asked professors to share course materials and discussion questions to offer a sneak peek at the breadth of opportunities available during the best term of the year. 
W&L students and faculty, as well as members of the Rockbridge Ballet, will participate in the event.
The all-student band is comfortable performing in a wide range of styles, and this concert will present an impressive gamut.
The show is free and open to the public. 
 The concert is open to the public, and no tickets are required.
The performance is a preview of the group’s upcoming tour of Scotland.
 The show is free and open to the public.
Their public performance is titled “Old Made New.”
Talamantes has released two albums: “Heaven and Earth: a Duke Ellington Songbook” and “Canciones Españolas.”
The duet features W&L music faculty Julia Goudimova, on cello and Anna Billias, on piano and highlights 20th-century composers.
The concert will take place in Wilson Hall, and is free and open to the public.
Morgan Luttig '14, who studied vocal performance and education at W&L, has returned as visiting instructor of music while Professor Shane Lynch is on sabbatical.
Tickets may be obtained by trading a non-perishable food item to benefit Campus Kitchen at W&L.
The concert is free and open to the public, and no tickets are required.
The Antioch Chamber is one of the most highly regarded chamber choral groups in the United States. 
Both events are free and open to the public; no tickets are required.
The group consists of current W&L faculty members Jaime McArdle, violinist, Julia Goudimova, cellist and Timothy Gaylard, pianist. 
The event is free and open to the public and tickets are free, but required.
Join members of the W&L choral program for a Parents and Family Weekend choral concert on Sept. 28, at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
A Washington and Lee University faculty recital will present “From the Salon to the Dance Hall,” a concert of works by Schumann, Brahms and Astor Piazzolla.
Take a peek behind the Lenfest curtain for 2018-19.
The performance is free and open to the public.
The performance is free and open to the public, and no tickets are required.
The performance is free and open to the public, and no tickets are required.
On April 15, the University Singers will give a public performance in Richmond with world-renowned composer Ēriks Ešenvalds. 
Coralie Chu '18 has always been a performer, but W&L helped her discover confidence both on and off the stage.
Audience members will hear a wide range of genres and original compositions by Denny Euprasert.
The ensemble consists of students, staff and alumni.
The concert will feature Concerto-Aria Competition Winner Lisa Roth ’19 on piano.
Roomful of Teeth is a Grammy-winning vocal project dedicated to reimagining the expressive potential of the human voice.
The concert will include works from a wide range of 20th-century composers influenced by the blues, jazz and Broadway.
The concert is free and open to the public, and no tickets are required.
This marks the third time since 2006 that the orchestra, previously known as Chamber Orchestra Kremlin, has performed at W&L.
Byron Petty, Shuko Watanabe and William McCorkle will perform French, German and Italian works from the baroque.
The program will feature a variety of works from Centuries of Psalms to modern music to traditional American folk songs.
Trio ZBR will present a program that expands the definition of virtuosity in music.
The concert will feature W&L’s Ting-Ting Yen on violin and Anna Billias on piano.
 “The Cross-Cultural Clarinet” is a concert of contemporary works for the solo clarinet that explores the versatility of the clarinet.
The concert will open with Louise Héritte-Viardot’s “Piano Quartet No. 1 in A Major.”
Higgins will perform pieces by Henry Purcell, Franz Schubert, Gabriel Fauré, Gian Carlo Menotti and others.
Jordan Goldstein's Washington and Lee journey can be followed through her love of music, her adventures on the stage — and the length of her hair. 
An internship at Warner Music Group in Nashville allowed Mary-Michael Teel '18 to marry her two loves: music and communications.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Xiaoxia Yin '20 and Sesha Carrier '20 to study traditional folk singing in China.
The program will open with Dr. Shane Lynch’s setting of “Gloria.”
W&L's annual Christmas Candlelight Service featuring the University Singers will be held Dec. 7, at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
The program will feature traditional and contemporary works written about dreams and colors.
The ensemble has two electric bass players and will offer the world debut of "Dueling Basses," along with works by Bill Monroe and more recent bluegrass bands.
The University Jazz Ensemble, under the direction of Denny Euprasert, will present interpretations of jazz standards and contemporary works.
Join the University Wind Ensemble, conducted by Christopher Dobbins, for its fall concert, “Shipping Out.”
Based in Marseilles, France, the group sings in the ancient Occitan language, accompanied by stomping, body percussion and drumming.
The show will run Thursday, Oct. 26 through Sunday, Oct. 29.
The Marlbrook Chamber Ensemble presents “A Classical and Romantic Afternoon,” a concert of works by Mozart and Brahms.
W&L's Theater, Dance and Film Studies, along with the Department of Music, present the Robert O. and Elizabeth M. Bentley fall musical, “The Addams Family, A New Musical.”
Joining the Washington and Lee University Singers are the women's choir, Cantatrici, and the Men’s Glee Club.
W&L presents Cajun-Creole musicians David Greely and Cedric Watson on Oct. 19.
Lundberg, along with bassist David Slack and an ensemble of Knoxville musicians, will explore the unforgettable television music of the 1970s and 1980s.
Anna Billias and Julia Goudimova will present “An Exploration of the Russian Soul: Selections from the ‘Mighty Five’ Russian Composers.”
Faculty and students from W&L's department of music will present a recital entitled “An Eclectic Potpourri.” 
Tim Gaylard, professor of music at W&L, will present a faculty recital of the final Beethoven piano sonatas.
Professor Chris Dobbins and Ben Whedon ’18 are reviving a forgotten musical score for its 21st-century premiere by the W&L Orchestra.
Receiving a thunderous standing ovation after performing in the Stern Auditorium of Carnegie Hall in New York was “truly one of those great life events” for the University Singers, according to Director Shane Lynch.
WDBJ-7 interviewed Dana Gary '18 and Austin Frank '17 about student-run label Friday Underground Records.
The Marlbrook Chamber Ensemble will play “A Love Triangle,” featuring Robert Schumann and Johannes Brahms.
Washington and Lee University Department of Music presents Jonathan Chapman Cook in a piano recital of four sonatas by Ludwig van Beethoven.
Twenty-nine composers from around the Southeast will spend two days in Lexington presenting their original works.
Dana Gary, whose first EP is recorded, produced and publicized by a student-run record label, will present songs at SSA.
The Jazz Ambassadors, the United States Army’s Official Touring Big Band, will be at W&L for a one-night engagement on March 21 at 7:30 p.m. in the Keller Theater.
The group was chosen to perform, along with only three other choirs from around the nation, after a highly competitive selection process.
Pianists Shuko Watanabe and Byron Petty all perform on March 5.
Enjoy a home performance by the Washington and Lee University Singers as they return from their 2016 tour of the South.
The Antioch Chamber Ensemble will give a performance at Washington and Lee University on Feb. 11 at 8 p.m. in the Concert Hall of Wilson Hall.
The one-night performance is at the Lenfest Center on Jan. 20 at 8 p.m. in the Wilson Concert Hall. No tickets are required and admission is free.
Somehow, in addition to all of his coursework and extracurricular activities, Elliot Emadian has found the time to write, record and release his premiere album.
Kick off the holiday season with traditional and contemporary arrangements of favorite holiday tunes!
The University Singers will perform the "Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols" at W&L's annual Christmas Candlelight Service.
After majoring in biochemistry, religion and music composition at W&L, Thomas Day took his skills to help people at their most vulnerable point in life. .
Alessandra Catizone '15 and Eleanor Jones '15 provide prosthetic hands to amputees in El Salvador.
Christopher Levy '15 and Sara Korash-Schiff '15 study the production of overtones in choral music.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Music archive.