The former executive director of ArtPower at the University of California, San Diego will begin his new role in July.
Performances of the high school samurai tale run April 3-5.
Stephanie Sandberg, assistant professor of theater, will discuss this year’s Nobel Prize in literature on Wednesday, Jan. 31 at 12:15 p.m.
In May, Mary Hipp ’90 said being a member of the second class of women undergraduates at W&L taught her a lot— although she didn’t realize it at the time.
W&L’s recent staging of ‘Speech & Debate’ brought its cast, crew and audience an opportunity to engage with an innovative, collaborative approach to theater.
The premiere event will be followed by a student-led discussion about their experiences and the creative journey in producing the films.
W&L students in this Spring Term’s “Swedish Theater” course were immersed in culture during their three weeks in Stockholm, Sweden.
Connor has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Germany.
Moran is inspired by W&L’s values and commitment to liberal arts education.
W&L’s distinctive summer programming helped Burks-Parra develop her personal and professional interests.
Ocean voyages, sword fights, treasure hunts, rivalry, friendships and pirates are on display in this show based on the familiar novel by Robert Louis Stevenson.
Booker will give a lecture on Sept. 27 at 5 p.m. in in Leyburn Library’s Northen Auditorium.
The show will run for three nights: May 17-19. Tickets are required.
The show runs from March 31-April 3 in Keller Theatre on the W&L campus.
“Thumbelina” will be presented at Keller Theatre in two performances on Feb. 12 at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. Tickets are required.
Performances will occur Dec. 2-5 in the Keller Theatre on the W&L campus. Tickets are required. 
Tickets for the 2022 season can be purchased online using a credit card or in-person at the Lenfest Center box office beginning Nov. 30.
W&L presents a staged reading of Will Arbery’s “Heroes of the Fourth Turning” in the Johnson Theatre on the W&L campus on Oct. 21-23 at 7:30 p.m.
The cast and crew of W&L’s upcoming Bentley Musical, “Little Women,” tackled a host of pandemic-related challenges to produce a film version of the show that will be screened for audiences March 30-April 2. 
Highlights include live performances of works written from artists and scholars nationwide.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company performance will stream for free online on March 25 and 26 at 7 p.m., March 27 at 6 p.m. and March 28 at 2 p.m.
In the latest episode of the Lifelong Learning podcast, Mish talks about his passion for theater, how musicals can be reinvented to account for changing times, and his experiences connecting students and alumni. 
Bioh's hit comedy "School Girls; Or, The African Mean Girls Play" will be screened online March 16, and a virtual talk by Bioh will occur March 18.
The performance will run Oct. 15-18, and it is free and open to the public to watch via livestream.
No tickets are required for the production, which will be performed at Blackfriars Playhouse in Staunton on Sept. 12 and streamed live in cinema quality. 
Chris Johnson ’00 uses his camera to document the COVID-19 crisis.
Working in Italy, starring in theater productions and being involved in Generals' Unity are just a few of the experiences that have made W&L a great fit for Win Gustin '20.
Despite a COVID-abbreviated run, the cast of W&L's "EVERYBODY" celebrates the "positive, self-affirming experience" of putting on the show. 
Writer Branden Jacobs-Jenkins, who based this play on the anonymous 15th-century "Everyman," presents a new take on an old story and the old question of what happens when we cross over to the other side.
“Considering Matthew Shepard” tells the now infamous true story and aftermath of the kidnapping, torture and murder of Matthew Shepard near Laramie, Wyoming, in 1998. Tickets are required for the performance.
Snyder is a journalist known for her works on the topic of domestic violence.
The team won the Mentor Award at the Adrenaline Film Project.
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream” is a tale built on multiple storylines that interfere with each other and create an irresistible web of mayhem and mischief.
With the support of faculty and fellow students, Charlotte Cook '19 acted in seven theater productions at W&L while juggling a major, two minors and other extracurricular activities.
In Professor Rob Mish’s Spring Term class, students take on virtually every aspect of creating a fully staged theatrical production. 
“The House of Yes” is presented through special arrangement with Dramatists Play Service.
The partnership will bring the company’s national tour and on-site workshops to W&L’s campus.
“The Cherry Orchard” is the final full play written by Anton Chekhov, who is considered by many to be the father of modern drama.
The performance will take place on Jan. 24 at 7:30 p.m. in the Keller Theatre on the Washington and Lee University campus.
This production is open to the public, but tickets are required. 
Staff and students in the costume shop at Lenfest Center have been hard at work creating fabulous costumes for this upcoming W&L production.
 The show runs Oct. 25-27 at 7:30 p.m., and Oct. 28 at 2 p.m. in Keller Theatre on the W&L campus.
Take a peek behind the Lenfest curtain for 2018-19.
Performances will run March 1-6.
Students play a key role in creating the visual styling for upcoming productions by the theater department. 
“James and the Giant Peach” follows the story of James, a forgotten and lonely child, played by Arthur Love ’18.
Jordan Goldstein's Washington and Lee journey can be followed through her love of music, her adventures on the stage — and the length of her hair. 
Sandberg’s adaptation follows one character as he grapples with the unnerving grip Big Brother, the overpowering political party, has on Oceania.
The show will run Thursday, Oct. 26 through Sunday, Oct. 29.
W&L's Theater, Dance and Film Studies, along with the Department of Music, present the Robert O. and Elizabeth M. Bentley fall musical, “The Addams Family, A New Musical.”
Students practiced stage magic, sculpted severed fingers and whipped up batches of fake blood in a Spring Term course on special effects for the theater.
The Lenfest Center for the Arts presents “Judgment at Nuremberg” by the L.A. Theatre Works (LATW), a one-night performance in the Lenfest’s Keller Theater on April 25 at 7:30 p.m.
Marquita Robinson ’10 loves the uncertainty of life as a sitcom writer for “New Girl.”
The Washington and Lee Department of Theater, Dance, and Film Studies presents  “Dracula” on Feb. 9 and 11 at 7:30 p.m.; Feb. 10 at 10 p.m.; and Feb. 12 at 2 p.m. in the Keller Theater, Lenfest Center.
Through the generosity of the Ruth E. Flournoy Theater Endowment, the Washington and Lee Department of Theater, Dance, and Film Studies will present Little Matchstick Factory’s “The Other Mozart,” written and performed by Sylvia Milo.
Matthew Reichel '17 didn't expect to be cast as Edward in Washington and Lee's production of "Sense and Sensibility," but now he is embracing the part.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Theater archive.