Kogan’s piano recital will be held on March 24 at 3 p.m.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Five-Star Distinguished Alumni Award winners
The classics professor’s Ancient Graffiti Project digital resource was also mentioned in the article that focuses on ancient graffiti works.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Young Alumni Award winners
Matthew Loar serves as director of fellowships and student research.
Classics professor will use the fellowship to research his project “Annotated Amores” at the University of Cincinnati this spring.
Dixon has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Taiwan.
Sutherland's advice for current students: "Don’t take yourself too seriously!"
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Alumni Award winners
The Elmes Pathfinder Prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Five-Star Distinguished Alumni Awards winners
Benefiel’s talk “Uncovering the mysteries of Pompeii” will be held on Nov. 10.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Young Alumni Award winners
These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university. 
Caleb Dance serves as associate professor of classics
As director, Loar is responsible for the management and administration of the program
Kayla Monaghan ’24 is collaborating on a Summer Research Scholars (SRS) project to enhance resources available through Leyburn Library.
Elizabeth Grist '22 will spend next year conducting research in Melbourne, Australia as a Fulbright Scholar. Her project assesses the barriers and stigma associated with receiving medication for opioid use disorder. 
Eric Bazile '25 is interning with the Austin Greater Chamber of Commerce through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty (SHECP).
Elizabeth Grist has been awarded a Fulbright research grant to Melbourne, Australia, to study the stigma and barriers associated with receiving medication for opioid use disorder.
The English Teaching Assistantship provides Cones a stipend to teach English to students in Bulgaria and lead cultural exchange activities.
After receiving a great deal of support from upperclassmen at Washington and Lee University, Hannah Puckett ’23 pays it forward by dedicating her time to mentoring and counseling first-year students.
Larsen will spend the next academic year studying at the Budapest Semesters in Mathematics and participating in a research group at the Alfréd Rényi Institute of Mathematics.
Professor Dan-el Padilla Peralta’s talk is titled "Kehinde Wiley and Black Classicisms."
Lauren Curtis, associate professor of classical studies at Bard College, will give a lecture at W&L on Feb. 11 at 4 p.m.
Matthew Loar published a chapter in the "The Oxford Handbook of Heracles."
Professor Rebecca Benefiel discusses the role of graffiti in the ancient Roman town of Pompeii.
Lauren Hoaglund '22 has parlayed her passion for medieval and Renaissance history, literature, classics and theater into a busy but rewarding four years at W&L.
This year, 14 W&L students won honors in the Classical Association of the Middle West and South Latin translation exam.
Nandini Pandey’s lecture is titled "Diversity, Desire, and the Exotic in Ancient Rome (with some thoughts on Atlanta)."
Each scholar is awarded $7,500 to support undergraduate research in their junior or senior year.
Melissa Yorio '21 has received support from many corners during her college career, so when the pandemic broke out, she found a way to give back within her hometown community. 
 The title of Bodel's lecture was "The epigraphic habit and the epigraphic mode."
Smithsonian flew Benefiel to Pompeii in May 2019 to interview on-site.
Christopher McCrackin ’20 has won a $34,000 Beinecke Scholarship to help fund his graduate studies. 
The title of his talk, which is free and open to the public, is “Grammatical Gender and Roman Conceptions of Poetry, Gods, and the More-Than-Human.”
Averett’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Frightening the Frightful: Grotesque Visages from Ancient Cyprus.”
Pellicciaro taught at W&L from 1966 to 1999.
Charles Philip Blackledge ’38 gifted an important and fascinating collection of Roman coins to Washington and Lee Special Collections.
Benefiel explains how she has spent more than a decade studying what the people of Pompei and Herculaneum wrote on their walls.
While digging at the Athenian Agora Excavation in Greece this summer, Allison Schuster '19 indulged her passion for archaeology and classics.
The scholarship will be the first awarded in the 2018-19 academic year.
His talk is sponsored by the Glasgow Endowment Committee and the Provost Lecture Fund.
More than 500 ancient graffiti are now available online through the project website.
After Tucker Hall was restored, University Collections of Art & History worked to find the perfect art to adorn its walls — including four bas-relief sculptures that hung on campus more than 100 years ago.
Flower’s talk is titled “The Dancing Lares and the Serpent in the Garden: Roman Local and Household Religion.”
The associate professor of classics won a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities to support the digitization of Pompeian epigraphy, along with Sara Sprenkle, associate professor of computer science.
As a summer counselor with the nonprofit Camp Fire Alaska, Chase Wonderlic '18 got in touch with his inner child and his adventurous spirit.
Hannah Palmatary '18 spent the summer discovering the ancient ruins of Greece, as well as her own talent and passion for creative writing.
The grant will support digitization of Pompeian epigraphy as part of the Ancient Graffiti Project.
A Bible in the Special Collections vault turned out to be the 1642 New Testament that belonged to France’s King Louis XIII.
Zachary Taylor '17 and Austin Piatt '17 believe leadership, collaboration and responsibility are the keys to a successful conference.
Briggs will speak on “James Dickey and ‘Life’: How Poems Are Made.” 
Webster's research and teaching interests include ancient science and medicine, and ancient philosophy.
Washington and Lee will host a reception celebrating Paqui Toscano's selection as a Rhodes Scholar on Friday, March 17, from 4:30 - 5:30 p.m. in the Commons Living Room.
Kathleen Lynch, associate professor of classics at the University of Cincinnati, will give the 2016-2017 Hoyt Lecture at Washington and Lee University on March 7 at 7 p.m. in Staniar Art Gallery, Wilson Hall.
Ward Briggs ’67 has memorialized his longtime friend, writer James Dickey, with a large donation of Dickey materials to Washington and Lee Special Collections.
Pasquale “Paqui” Toscano, a classics and English double major, is Washington and Lee’s 16th Rhodes Scholar.  The Rhodes Trust announced Sunday that Toscano, 22, of Kettering, Ohio, was one of 32 scholars chosen this year. The scholarships, valued at between $50,000 to $200,000, fully fund two to four years of study at the University of Oxford in England.
Shepherd Intern Zach Taylor explores a holistic approach to middle school education at the Washington Jesuit Academy.
Professor Michael Laughy uses digital technology in the classroom to study ancient Greece.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Classics archive.