Charlotte Dross ’23 is working in public relations as a postgraduate intern at Jackson Spalding.
Bridget Osas ’25 is researching behavioral impacts on the development of metabolic syndromes like obesity.
Spanfeller will be applying her studies in sociology and strategic communication to her new role as an editorial assistant for Women's Health magazine.
De Maria, a longtime professor and manager of the university’s radio station and television studio, was a beloved mentor to students and a cherished colleague and friend to many in the university community.
Cox is an award-winning historian and a distinguished lecturer for the Organization of American Historians.
Professor Aly Colón published an article describing the best practices for consuming news in The Conversation.
The Feb. 24 talk, which is free and open to the public to view online, is titled “A Conversation with David Fahrenthold of the Washington Post: Unraveling the Troubled, Secretive Trump Empire.”
Students in Professor Dayo Abah’s Principles of Public Relations class worked with a Lexington nonprofit  to make a life skills book for clients who are trying to get back on their feet.
Journalism Professor Toni Locy appears in multiple episodes of the new docuseries "Trial 4."
Elizabeth Kolbert, a staff writer for The New Yorker, will give a virtual lecture on Oct. 29 at 5 p.m. 
W&L journalism professor Aly Colón is quoted in a piece about a recent decision by the AP Stylebook and other journalism institutions to begin capitalizing the B in Black in articles about people and culture.
When Kara Lough '20 found W&L, she found a supportive environment that allowed her to lead a magazine, study in Italy, work as a photographer and plan a career.
Her talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled "Barely Legal: Political Ads, Social Media and #sponcon."
A panel discussion will feature six leading business journalists who cover big financial and economic stories.
“Running Home” tells the story of humanitarian, accomplished middle-distance runner and coach Tony Ruiz.
An all-student team has created a versatile app for Mock Con 2020, bringing ticketing, program information and image sharing onto attendees’ phones and eliminating thousands of pages of printed material.
Coddington’s book is titled “Aggregating the News: Secondhand Knowledge and the Erosion of Journalistic Authority.”
Senior Laura Calhoun looks back at her W&L experience and celebrates the community she's built here. 
The conversation will address how the news media grapples with ethics in confrontational times. 
Pulitzer Prize winners Susanne Craig and Rachel Abrams to visit W&L Sept. 19
The screening, which is free and open to the public, will advance the Lexington conference of the South Sudanese Diaspora Network for Reconciliation and Peace (SSDNRP). 
Students took first place in three categories in the Society of Professional Journalists’ regional college journalism competition.
Baron became executive editor of the Post in 2013. There, he oversees print and digital news operations and a staff of more than 800 journalists.
Finch will give a public talk on March 20 at 4:30 p.m. on the main floor of Leyburn Library on the W&L campus. 
Washington and Lee will host a public screening of “Triton: America’s Deep Secret” on Feb. 26 at 6 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater on the W&L campus. 
Hannah Denham, ’20, is one of the top 20 finalists in the Hearst Journalism Awards’ enterprise writing contest.
The discussion will take place Nov. 9. at 5:30 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater.
In his talk, which is free and open to the public, Barstow will discuss his coverage of the Trump administration and other projects.
In the op-ed, Professor Kevin Finch argues that Virginians should end the debate about debates.
Professor Kevin Finch, who just released a new documentary, loves that W&L faculty have “this wonderful combination of academic credentials and practical experience.”
Catherine Savoca ’19 explored the real estate development industry this summer as a sales and marketing intern in Lisbon, Portugal.
As a Presidential Leadership Scholar, Dana Bolden '89 discussed effective leadership styles with Presidents Bush and Clinton.
Swasy's piece was published in Splinter News.
Majo Bustamante '18 was a marketing and communications intern for NASA Automotriz, the company that owns the rights to sell Ford and Volkswagen in San Jose, Costa Rica.
Brett Strohsacker ’06, who played soccer and majored in mass communications at W&L, has worked his way to the top of the Philadelphia Eagles PR team.
An internship at Warner Music Group in Nashville allowed Mary-Michael Teel '18 to marry her two loves: music and communications.
Working for the documentary filmmaking company Ark Media allowed Claire Hoffert '18 to exercise her research muscles and learn new skills.
Elora Fucigna '19 completed an internship in social media and marketing for Ground Floor Farm, an urban farm in her hometown of Stuart, Florida.
Laura Wang '19 interned for the Shell company in Shanghai, putting her communications skills to the test and making new friends along the way.
Fahrenthold’s talk, titled "Journalism in the Time of Trump,” is free and open to the public.
Daisy Norwood-Kelly '18 worked in marketing research for Paramount Pictures over the summer.
Kaela Harmon ’05 makes the case for airports to by combining data analysis with creativity
Whether they were doing service work in Birmingham, touring firms in NYC, or climbing an ice-encrusted mountain in New Hampshire, Washington and Lee students made the most of Washington Break.
Meet Ashley Faulkner ‘18, a University Ambassador with a passion for showing others why she loves W&L
"The conference is a great way to meet and network with alumni, and a leadership role with AdLib allows more opportunity to speak with and gain valuable advice from alumni in my interested field."
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Strategic Communication archive.