The former executive director of ArtPower at the University of California, San Diego will begin his new role in July.
The senior thesis exhibition will be on view April 1-12.
George Bent is the Sidney Gause Childress Professor of Art History.
The interactive exhibition will run from Feb. 13 through March 25.
‘Salvador Dalí: Les Chants de Maldoror’ features original etchings from the surrealist and will run from Jan. 11 through Feb. 8.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
The associate professor of art history will serve as the Mudd Center Director for three years beginning July 1, 2024.
After graduating with a double degree in English and studio art, Gabriela Gomez-Misserian ’21 took her talents to Garden & Gun Magazine.
The Elmes Pathfinder Prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
Delaney will discuss the scientific imaging of paintings in his Oct. 30 lecture.
Greub will explore physical and emotional responses to Twombly’s works in his Oct. 16 lecture in Northen Auditorium.
“Mohammad Omer Khalil: Musings,” co-curated by four Washington and Lee students as part of a seminar course in museum studies, will be on display in the Watson Galleries Sept. 28, 2023 through June 1, 2024.
Sandy de Lissovoy was one of 22 fellows to participate in the prestigious residency program at Mt. San Angelo.
Professor Wendy Castenell kicks off the series on Sept. 19 at noon in Leyburn Library.
Caraballo is one of 369 students from across the U.S. to receive the merit scholarship from the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
The Museums at W&L invite the public to their opening reception for “Musings” on Sept. 28 at 6:30 p.m.
The solo exhibition will run from Sept. 4 through Oct. 25 and kicks off the gallery’s fall season.
Leica Geosystems followed Bent and his team of W&L students on a day spent mapping the city of Florence. 
Ellie Penner ’23 received a Boren Scholarship to study Hindi in India.
W&L’s campus culture — from small classes to the Speaking Tradition — gave Lemon the communication skills and confidence to succeed.
Washington and Lee’s Museum Artist-in-Residence Program welcomed photographer Stephanie Shih to campus in May to create new work based on the Museums’ art collection.
Emma Steinkraus’ exhibition “Princess Botticelli” opens June 29 at the 1969 Gallery in Tribeca
All funds will support W&L students with Professor George Bent’s digital humanities project “Florence As It Was.”
Boussy has been awarded a Fulbright-Nehru research grant to study Buddhist shrines and temples in India.
Melissa Kerin and Barton Myers will each receive $6,000 to support their research projects.
W&L neuroscience students recently partnered with an innovative art-making program offered at Kendal at Lexington.
“OPEN FLOWERS BEAR FRUIT” opens May 1 in the McCarthy Gallery in Holekamp Hall.
The solo exhibition will run from April 24 to May 25 in Staniar Gallery inside Washington and Lee University’s Lenfest Center for the Arts.
Sutherland's advice for current students: "Don’t take yourself too seriously!"
The Museums at W&L invites visitors to reflect on “Born of Fire: Contemporary Japanese Women Ceramic Artists,” on display through April 29.
Melissa Kerin is an associate professor of art history.
W&L’s most recent museum exhibition, “Mother Clay: The Pottery of Three Pueblo Women,” brought new artists into the university’s collection and connected the campus community in unexpected ways. 
Katie Wall Podracky '05 painted the landscape of more than 40 state parks during the COVID-19 shutdown.
This exhibit is free and open to the public, with a scheduled reception and lecture by curator and scholar Jacqueline Chao on March 8 at 5 p.m.
The Staniar Gallery at W&L will hold an exhibition of works by Adrienne Callander through March 17
Two new ceramics exhibits, which spotlight women artists, open to the public Feb. 1.
The solo exhibition by sculptor Sam Blanchard is on view until Feb. 8.
Anthony Edwards, Theodore Van Loan and Kameliya Atanasova were featured at the annual event. 
Brinker makes her mark on Florence, Italy’s digital history.
The show will be on view from Nov. 7-Dec. 9
George Bent, David Pfaff and Mackenzie Brooks teamed up to profile the 3D reconstruction of historic sites in Florence, Italy.
A new member of the art faculty, Emma Steinkraus recently completed an exhibition at the Hashimoto Contemporary in Los Angeles.
The show will be on display in Wilson Hall’s Lykes Atrium in conjunction with Esteban Ramón Pérez’s solo exhibition “Distorted Myths,” which will be on view in the Staniar Gallery Oct. 10 through Nov. 2. 
The show will be on view from Oct. 10–Nov. 2.
These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university. 
Elliott King profiled the renowned artist for ‘The Journal of Surrealism and the Americas.’
Christine Carr to take part in a yearlong effort with the City of Roanoke Stormwater Utility.
Lepage’s talk “Borderlands Arts Pedagogy” will be held on Sept. 28.
Clover Archer’s work will be featured in the Art in Odd Places Story exhibition in New York City later this month.
The first of three fall exhibitions at Washington and Lee University’s Staniar Gallery is now open to the public.
Sandy de Lissovoy is one of 22 fellows to participate in the prestigious residency program from Virginia Center for the Creative Arts.
The Museums at W&L invite the public to their opening reception for "Museum Menageries" on Sept. 15 at 6 p.m.
Cleveland is working as a trip leader for an active travel company in Alaska this summer, and she plans to work in Europe this fall. 
Sheridan, a business administration and studio art major, will be joining the wealth management team at UBS in New York City.
Students in Elliott King’s Spring Term class, “Modern Art in Barcelona,” are being steeped in Spanish art, history and architecture during an unforgettable educational trip to Barcelona and Madrid.
The two recent acquisitions, a large dish and a small jar, allow the museum to better represent the global reach of Chinese ceramics. 
After her USTA program orientation in September, Shugart will team teach in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
Washington and Lee’s Staniar Gallery presents “Passage,” a retrospective exhibition of paintings celebrating the career of W&L’s Kathleen Olson. There will be a public reception for the show on May 7 at 5 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
Maggie Hardin '22 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany.
King co-edited a book as a part of Penn State Press' "Refiguring Modernism" series.   
The students’ work is on display in Staniar Gallery through April 9.
W&L will celebrate the international movement on April 2 from noon to 2 p.m. in Watson Gallery on the W&L campus. 
McMaster has been awarded a Fulbright research grant to Italy to complete a hybrid art history and computer science project.
The show will be on view from Feb. 14 through March 18, and artist Leah Raintree will give a public talk on Feb. 15.
The exhibition titled “American Surrealist, paintings by Donald Nield (1924-1984)” will be on display through Feb. 9. Professor Elliot King will give a public lecture about Nield’s work on Jan. 18 at 5:30 p.m.
Amelia Lancaster '22 has used her W&L experience to explore a number of interests, ultimately finding a passion in museum studies and Chinese that has allowed her to co-curate a museum exhibition on campus.
The large-scale community artwork created as part of a Mudd Center program will be on view in Wilson Hall's Lykes Atrium through Feb. 9. 
On Nov. 30, Taylor will speak on the current VFMA exhibition, "Man Ray: The Paris Years."
The latest episode of W&L's Lifelong Learning podcast takes listeners to Italy with George Bent, who describes his remarkable digital history project.
Kerin recently published a paper titled "Cut, Tuck, and Paste: Repurposing Mass-Produced Imagery at Buddhist Shrines in Ladakh, India."
The exhibit, with works by Maria Cristina Tavera, will be on display Nov. 8-Dec. 3.
A deer figure on display in a new Watson Galleries exhibit, "Auspicious Animals," is an example of the Chinese practice of blending European tastes with encoded symbolic meaning.
The exhibit reflects on women's right to vote.
Cox is an award-winning historian and a distinguished lecturer for the Organization of American Historians.
The Museums at W&L invite the public to their grand reopening reception on Sept. 24 at 4:30 p.m.
The exhibition is the first comprehensive study of the artist's watercolors.
Professor Christa Bowden presents her newest collaborative art show at Augusta University titled “Cumberland Island: Land, Water, Wind, and Light."
Two presenters who met at a 2017 conference at Washington and Lee joined forces to repatriate a stolen Nepali deity. 
The May 17 event will highlight the exhibit, which is curated by sevens students at W&L as part of a Spring Term course, Seminar in Museum Studies.
Hostile Terrain 94, a global pop-up exhibit that takes a powerful look at the human cost of undocumented migration at the U.S. southern border, opened at W&L this week after years of planning and collaboration.
Professor Andrea Lepage recently published two essays based on exhibits in W&L's Staniar Gallery.
The photography exhibit will be on display April 26 through May 28, with a virtual artist talk on May 11 at 5:30 p.m.
The exhibit of paintings by Evelyn Dawson, which includes student reflections and a student-curated playlist, is part of Museums at W&L's new Mindfulness Initiative and the 20th anniversary of the Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Program. 
The students’ work will be on display in Staniar Gallery starting March 29.
The April 8 talk is titled "Art as Transformation: Using Photography for Social Change."
The community is invited to a virtual talk on April 7 titled "Women in the Arts: Out of the Margins, Into the Light."
In a recent in-class project, seven W&L students used materials found around campus to discuss a broader historical narrative and create a piece now on display in Staniar Gallery.
Opening Feb. 23, the exhibit will display the Vermont-based artist’s sculptural works. An artist’s talk is scheduled for Feb. 24.
Professors Leigh Ann Beavers and Chris Gavaler recently published a textbook titled “Creating Comics: A Writer’s and Artist's Guide and Anthology.”
Beavers’ exhibit will appear in Washington and Lee's Staniar Gallery from Jan. 17 through Feb. 18, with a virtual artist talk on Jan. 27 at 5:30 p.m. 
Theater students at W&L were challenged to select a piece from the university's art collection and give it voice. 
Jerónimo Reyes '21 says he is so immensely grateful for the gifts in his life, including a QuestBridge scholarship to W&L, that he wants to become a doctor and devote his career to helping others. 
The recent graduates’ work will be on display in Lykes Atrium.
"American Folk" is a series of photographic portraits by West Virginia-based artist Lisa Elmaleh. She will give a virtual artist's talk on Nov. 4 at 5:30 p.m.
Professor de Lissovoy gave an artist’s talk through the Virginia Museum of Contemporary Art.
The acclaimed group is known worldwide for promoting social justice and human rights for all people and genders. The virtual exhibit and lecture are free and open to the public.
A generous donation of art last year from Rick Kramer '69 includes three works by Sam Gilliam, one of the most significant living artists of our time.
A plate decorated with a widely distributed political cartoon of the American Revolution was used as commentary on the political, social and economic issues of the time.
A new gift to the Reeves Museum of Ceramics documents how one artist is responding to the COVID-19 pandemic.
The online exhibition is the first comprehensive study of the artist's watercolors.
This plate, a recent gift to W&L's Reeves Museum of Ceramics from local collectors Joan and Jay Crawford, provides a window into Chinese culture and the material lives of one of Virginia’s most prestigious families.  
W&L's studio art majors present their senior projects in an online exhibition.
Atkinson will speak on “Where I am is Who I am: Plotting Spatial Demographics in Renaissance Florence.”
The lecture is free and open to the public.
“When It Breaks,” oil paintings on canvas by Nick Alexander, is on display at the McCarthy Gallery in Holekamp Hall now through May 31, 2020.
The artists will give a public presentation, followed by a reception, on Jan. 28 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
King served as a guest curator for an exhibit of six René Magritte paintings, which opened on Dec. 1.
As Native American Heritage Month kicks off, University Collections of Art and History invites you to see artwork by Native American artists and featuring Native American people and cultures.
An exhibition of photographic works by Texas-based artist Mari Hernandez will open in Washington and Lee’s Staniar Gallery Nov. 5.
The works will be on display through Nov.1, with an artist’s talk and reception on Oct.16 at 5:30 p.m.
The works will be on display through Sept. 27, with an artist’s talk and reception on Sept. 18. 
Maggie Ogilvie Stacy ’97 stays connected to her community as president of the board of the Ronald McDonald House in Houston.
For Darcy Olmstead '21 and Lindsey Hewitt '21, analyzing art in the Netherlands and the U.S. with Professor Erich Uffelman has been an educational 'dream come true.'
James Ricks '21 is spending the summer working for The Oda Foundation in Nepal, where he is researching tobacco use and working with children to create a mural that represents health in their town.
Adriana Corral on her Installation of "Unearthed: Desenterrado" in Rural Virginia
With the support of faculty and fellow students, Charlotte Cook '19 acted in seven theater productions at W&L while juggling a major, two minors and other extracurricular activities.
 Artist Adriana Corral spent two days creating a site-specific wall drawing in W&L's Staniar Gallery to accompany her exhibition. Here's a look at that process.
The medical researcher travels, teaches and conducts research to eliminate neglected tropical diseases.
Christina Cheadle ’16 is a community and events manager for KonMari Media Inc., the company founded by tidying expert and Netflix star Marie Kondo.
Students in the Spring Term course Drawing in Place practice observational drawing in a beautiful setting near Lexington.
 Reese is an English major and studio art minor. 
Professor of Art Christa Bowden's Spring Term course, Antique Photo Processes, focuses entirely on 19th-century photo processes. 
The show will be on display from April 22–May 24.
Dau will live and work in Vienna for nine months.
Her scholarship will fund a nine- to 12-month study of small-scale cultural heritage looting operations in the Golden Triangle of India.
Each spring, the W&L art department showcases the senior theses of studio majors in a professional gallery setting.
On March 1, W&L’s University Collections of Art and History will open its newest exhibit, "Breaking the Chains: Ceramics and the Abolition Movement."
University Collections of Art and History recently purchased prints by iconic American artists Thomas Hart Benton and James Abbott McNeill Whistler, and they are already being incorporated into courses in art and art history. 
The artists will present their work in a talk on Feb. 12 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
The artist will give a public artist’s talk on Jan. 23 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall. 
Lewis Perkins '93, the self-described “liberal arts kid” who received the Distinguished Alumnus Award at his 25th reunion in April, nurtured his creative spirit at W&L. Now he brings that spirit to a nonprofit that encourages sustainability. 
Max Adler ’04, editorial director at Golf Digest magazine, used golf and art to facilitate the release of a wrongfully convicted man.
Joel Bernstein ’57 brings his passion for Native American art to W&L with a groundbreaking new exhibition.
The show will be on view Nov. 5 – Dec. 7.
As part of an art class, W&L students built the university’s first earth oven, which will be a permanent fixture in the Campus Garden.
Friends and classmates of Jeanne de Saussure Smith ’08 have dedicated an E. E. Cummings painting to W&L in her memory.
Oring visited W&L in conjunction with her Staniar Gallery exhibit, "Writer's Block."
 The show will be on display Oct. 5 – Nov. 1.
This elegant bowl, which is part of W&L's Reeves Collection, can be traced back to the Opium War of 1839-1842.
A panel discussion and reception for "The Unfreedom of Expression: Artworks from the Augusta Correctional Center" will take place Sept. 13, but the exhibit will remain on display through Sept. 30.
After taking a course at Augusta Correctional Center, two W&L juniors helped to organize an exhibition at the university featuring artwork by artists who are incarcerated. The exhibit is entitled “Unfreedom of Expression.” 
The show will be on view Sept. 1-30. Oring will give a public artist’s talk on Sept. 26 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
Dr. Ling-ting Chiu, a Fulbright Scholar and assistant professor of history at Soochow University in Taiwan, spent the summer at Washington and Lee studying the works of former W&L professor and artist Professor I-Hsiung Ju.
Take a peek behind the Lenfest curtain for 2018-19.
Xinxian Wang '21 was able to marry two interests in an internship with The Visual Arts Center in Richmond.
The $7,000 Virginia Humanities grant will support an upcoming exhibit in Staniar Gallery.
Washington and Lee students partnered with Eagle’s Nest Clubhouse members to create a 32-foot community mural around the theme of recovery.
She is one of eight applicants to receive a $33,000 grant.
Elizabeth McDonald heads to Japan, Emily Austin to Indonesia and Riley Ries to Kyrgyzstan.
Ellen Kanzinger '18 provides a snapshot of the many opportunities she had to hone her photography skills at Washington and Lee.
More than 500 ancient graffiti are now available online through the project website.
Reese and two friends brought the First-Generation Low-Income Partnership to W&L, where it provides resources and a voice for students.
The work of Patrick Hinely '73 is currently on exhibit at Nelson Gallery, which is located on Washington Street in Lexington.
The show will be on display April 23 – May 24. 
After Tucker Hall was restored, University Collections of Art & History worked to find the perfect art to adorn its walls — including four bas-relief sculptures that hung on campus more than 100 years ago.
Staniar Gallery showcases work by the Art Department’s graduating studio majors.
The interactive exhibit will be on display in Staniar Gallery through March 17.
The vase, which was made in the city of Deruta, illustrates two main influences on European ceramic design.
Gyatso is best known for his work mixing Buddhist iconography with pop imagery.
Bass will give a public artist’s talk on Jan. 22 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
The William Jefferson Clinton Scholarship will allow Spiezio to attend the American University in Dubai during Winter Term 2018.
A three-month internship with New York-based artist Taryn Simon presented Sara Dotterer '18 with myriad possibilities for her future career.
On the 500th anniversary of the start of the Protestant Reformation, we take a closer look at a special item in the Reeves Collection — a plate that bears the image of Martin Luther.
Professor George Bent and his team of students are working on a digital recreation of Florence that Bent describes as the “project of his career.”
Mandy Witherspoon ’18 combined her love of art with her expertise in business at the Baltimore Museum of Art.
The show will be on view through Dec. 8.
Eugene M. and Judith F. Kramer’s exhibit collection “A Passion for Art: The Collection of Eugene M. and Judith F. Kramer” will be on display from Nov. 6–June 30.
Olivia Kubli '18's summer volunteer work included photographing lions, giraffes and elephants in Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe.
Her lecture, titled “À Propos Salvador Dalí and Marcel Duchamp,” will consider the friendship and artistic relationship between two important 20th-century artists.
A public artist’s talk and reception will be held Oct. 18 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
Elora Fucigna '19 completed an internship in social media and marketing for Ground Floor Farm, an urban farm in her hometown of Stuart, Florida.
Mary Catherine Greenleaf '19 collected and archived artifacts revolving around the Prohibition-era murder of Franklin Crosby Bearse.
A public artist’s talk and reception will be held on September 20 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
University Collections teamed up with the Art History and Chemistry departments at W&L to examine a tiny painting surrounded by mystery.
Ellen Kanzinger's summer internship allowed her to work on films for the nonprofit GroundTruth Project in Boston, Massachusetts.
This lecture is part of the Alumni College's summer program, "Rembrandt and the Dutch Golden Age."
An independent-study class at W&L allowed students to put together a short animated film from start to finish in only 12 weeks, but it turned out to be much more challenging than they expected.
Students in Meg Griffith’s Spring Term art class created public works of art to draw attention to important causes in the community.
Amirah S. Ndam Njoya ‘17 believes leadership, travelling, service, and scholarship are all vital parts of the W&L experience.
"The Battle of Minden" will be on display at W&L through the end of Fall Term 2017, when it will return on loan to Mount Vernon.
The life mask is perhaps the single most valuable item in a collection of more than 1,000 Dickey items in W&L Special Collections.
In his new book, Professor George Bent explores the cultural messages of Italian paintings from the Proto-Renaissance period.
W&L's Staniar Gallery presents a traveling exhibition that explores the impact of immigration to the U.S. through artworks made by those who are left behind and often separated from their loved ones.
Every once in a while someone comes along who reminds us that philanthropy is both profoundly creative and simpler than we think. For Eileen Small ’15, being a philanthropist is as simple as taking the ideas you have for how things could be better and doing something about them.
W&L's Melissa Kerin talked to WMRA's Jessie Knadler about the Staniar Gallery's recent exhibit by artist and researcher Joy Lyn Davis.
George Bent will discuss his new book, “Public Painting and Visual Culture in Early Republican Florence.” 
Six Washington and Lee University studio art students will present their senior thesis work in an exhibition at Staniar Gallery that runs from March 27-April 7.
A new exhibit, “Mementos of the Great War: Toby Jugs Commemorating Allied Leaders of World War I,” is open to the public in the Watson Pavilion at Washington and Lee University through December 2017.
The work of four Washington and Lee University photography students was accepted in the 2017 Southwest Virginia Juried Student Photography Competition at the Radford University Art Museum Downtown. 
Alvin Carl Hollingsworth was a leading African-American artist whose works can be seen in W&L's Leyburn Library.
A new exhibit-installation, directed by Stephanie Sandberg, will be on display in McCarthy Gallery of Holekamp Hall at the Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics beginning Jan. 26.
Meet Olivia Sisson, a senior who has wanted to be an artist since she was little - but didn’t know how - about her experience on the Humanities Career Trip to New York.
In the first installment of our new series, Ron Fuchs tells the story behind a 4,000-year-old jar in Watson Pavilion.
Washington and Lee's ceramics expert, Ron Fuchs, has been named chairman of the board of the American Ceramic Circle.
Finding answers in the space where science and art intersect.
“Aliyah, The Rebirth of Israel,” by Salvador Dalí, a suite of 25 lithographs commemorating the 25th anniversary of the founding of the state of Israel, will be on view from Jan. 9-Feb. 3.
W&L's Staniar Gallery is pleased to present erin o’Hara slavick’s exhibit “Illuminated Artifacts.” The show will be on display from Jan. 9 to Feb. 3, 2017.
As a student at Washington and Lee, Noelani Love ’05 made jewelry for fun and extra income. Today, she has turned that hobby into a thriving business.
"The conference is a great way to meet and network with alumni, and a leadership role with AdLib allows more opportunity to speak with and gain valuable advice from alumni in my interested field."
"When you’re involved with a large-scale project like AdLib that’s sponsored by the school, you come to learn that your work is a reflection of W&L as a whole."
Matthew Reichel '17 didn't expect to be cast as Edward in Washington and Lee's production of "Sense and Sensibility," but now he is embracing the part.
Ricardo Dominguez, American artist and associate professor of visual arts at UC San Diego, will speak on “Disturbance Gestures: Art Between the Lines.”
The Staniar Gallery at Washington and Lee University presents “Modern Art Goes Pop: Selections from W&L's Art Collection.” The show will be on view Nov. 7 – Dec. 9.
In an essay recently featured on Paint This Desert, Andrea Lepage, associate professor of art at Washington and Lee University, shares her thoughts on artist Vincent Valdez.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Sonia Brozak '17 Travels to Florence to Study Art History.
The 2016-17 academic year marks the 10-year anniversary for Washington and Lee University’s Staniar Gallery. To mark the occasion, Staniar Gallery will present a group exhibition featuring recent works by Studio Art faculty and W&L alumni who studied art in Wilson Hall and Staniar Gallery. “Decade: Staniar Gallery's 10-Year Anniversary Exhibition” will be on view Sept. 30–Oct. 28.
Recipients of W&L's Certificate of International Immersion reflect on their experiences abroad.
Studio art major Leigh Stauffer '16 works as a membership and development intern at The High Museum of Art in Atlanta.
Stuart Hogue '96 believes in the power of girls to end global poverty.
Margaret McClintock is an English major with a minor in art history from Tunica, Miss. A member of the Class of 2015, she has been president of the Panhellenic Council, and Appalachian Adventure Trip leader, a member of the Contact Committee, the Student Faculty Hearing Board, the Student Affairs Committee and Traveller.
Bailey Russell is a studio art (photography) major from Huntsville, Alabama. A member of the Class of 2016, she is co-chair of the LEAD Banquet Planning Committe, a DJ at WLUR, a peer tutor and a member of Reformed University Fellowship and KLAZICS hip-hop dance group. .
Haley Miller '16, a lifelong lover of sports, works as a marketing intern for Adidas.
W&L's IQ Center and Dalí Studio Assistant Collaborate to Create Innovative Art.
Charlotte Sisk spent the summer working as a project management intern for the Saatchi & Saatchi global communications and advertising agency network in New York City.
Business administration and art history major Colton Klein '15 interns at Sotheby's headquarters in New York City.
"Over my years at W&L I have constantly been drawing and redrawing myself, trying to find the most sincere, visceral and true parts."
Michael Bronstein '15 and T.J. Fisher '15 study the evolution of the depiction of chaos in art and neuroscience.
Sonia Brozak '17 studies Leonardo da Vinci's Annunciation.
"Day Out: A Story of a Mother's Love:" On stage at the Symposium of Theater in Academe on March 27.
Johnson Opportunity Grant winner connects interests in economics and art history at famed auction house.
Araba Wubah '17 conducts immunology research in Ghana.
Business administration and art history major Sarah Williamson '18 interns in the finance department at the Guggenheim.
Art history and business administration major Sarah Wagner interns in the public relations department of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.
Journalism major Leslie Yevak interns at Fox News Channel.
The first exhibit of the academic year at Washington and Lee University’s Staniar Gallery, which will be on view Sept. 1–24, is “Geolocation: Tributes to the Data Stream,” photographs by Nate Larson and Marni Shindelman.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Art archive.