The weekend’s seminar will feature Tess Gunty discussing her debut novel, “The Rabbit Hutch.”
Thomas’s piano recital will be held on March 29 at 8 p.m.
Nelson will deliver a lecture on “Where Math Meets Imagination” on March 19.
Akbar will read from his debut novel “Martyr!” at the March 14 event.
Holly Pickett’s book explores the stories of several serial converts in early modern England.
Environmental humanities classes introduced Hudson to new ideas on how humans interact with the world.
The public reading will take place March 6 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.
‘White before whiteness in the late Middle Ages’ will launch via Zoom on Jan. 25 from 5-6:30 p.m.
Newly promoted faculty members will present their research in a PechaKucha format on Jan. 30.
Professor and collection strategist named a Library Journal Reviewer of the Year 2023.
Stephanie Sandberg, assistant professor of theater, will discuss this year’s Nobel Prize in literature on Wednesday, Jan. 31 at 12:15 p.m.
After graduating with a double degree in English and studio art, Gabriela Gomez-Misserian ’21 took her talents to Garden & Gun Magazine.
Whitted’s lecture on Oct. 19, titled “All-New, All-Negro: Orrin C. Evans and the Golden Age of Comics,” is free and open to the public.
Lesley Wheeler’s essay “Ghost Tour” was featured in a guest-edited folio for the Summer 2023 issue.
Leah Naomi Green’s essay on Kaveh Akbar’s poem “The Miracle” is anthologized in “Raised by Wolves.”
The public reading will take place Oct. 3 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium inside Leyburn Library.
Tahri Phillips ’23 will be pursuing a master’s degree at the University of Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar.
The public reading will take place May 1 at 7 p.m. in Northen Auditorium inside Leyburn Library.
The weekend’s seminar will feature Amor Towles discussing his latest book, “The Lincoln Highway.”
Hawley has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Spain.
Leah Naomi Green’s essay titled “Mourning Songs Are Love Songs” was excerpted from the anthology “Solastalgia: An Anthology of Emotion in a Disappearing World.”
Avvirin Gray, assistant professor of English at Washington and Lee University, is the winner of the 2023 Jean Feldman Poetry Prize.
The Beinecke Scholarship Program provides funds for post-graduate study to students of unusual promise.
Quashie’s lecture on March 30, titled “Sentences and (Black) Beauty,” is free and open to the public.
CBL’s new initiative is an opportunity for faculty development, student collaboration and deepening partnerships with the surrounding community.
Adams’s talk “Ozymandian Histories: Monuments, Ruins, and Landscapes of Decline in America” will be held on March 14.
Beth Staples is an assistant professor of English and she serves as the editor of Shenandoah.
Dungy’s public reading will take place Feb. 28 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium inside Leyburn Library.
Scott's advice for current students: "There is no one way to do college. Do it your way and make it count."
The March 1 screening of Jordan Peele’s film will be followed by a discussion facilitated by W&L English professors.
Professor Genelle Gertz teamed with former student Pasquale Toscano ’16 to author “The Lost Network of Elizabeth Barton.”
Beth Staples’ fictional short story “Leaf Peepers” appeared in the publication’s Fall 2022 edition.
Wingard Cunningham joins W&L from College of Wooster, where she is the Mildred Foss Thompson Professor of English and dean for faculty development.
Leah Naomi Green serves as visiting assistant professor of English and environmental studies.
Diego Millan’s recent article analyzes the centrality of jokes in the Chester Himes book “If He Hollers Let Him Go.”
Phillips '23 is the university’s 18th Rhodes Scholar.
Gertz’s talk “Thinking with the Mystics” will be held on Oct. 18.
These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university. 
Booker will give a lecture on Sept. 27 at 5 p.m. in in Leyburn Library’s Northen Auditorium.
She will read from her widely anticipated new novel, “Thistlefoot.”
Students in Michael and Lena Hill’s Spring Term course are discovering what inspired writers of past generations.
"W&L’s small classes and dedicated professors made sure I never missed an opportunity to dive deeper into something that interests me."
A local book launch for the collection, “Poetry’s Possible Worlds,” will be held at the Reeves Museum of Ceramics on the W&L campus on May 17 at 4:45 p.m.
Warren’s lecture on March 24, which is free and open to the public, is titled "New World Nuns and the 'Old Religion’: The Afterlives of Medieval Female Spiritualities in the Early Modern Americas."
Hailer will give a public lecture on March 31 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium inside Leyburn Library.
O'Neil will give a public lecture on March 14 at 6 p.m. in the Hillel House sanctuary.
The professor of English and associate dean of strategic initiatives champions the liberal arts as the best preparation for postgraduate success.
Michelle Brock and Holly Pickett are the Harte Center Faculty Teaching Scholar Grant recipients.
Valencia Robin, an artist and author, will give a public lecture on March 7 at 5 p.m. in the Hillel House Sanctuary.
Poet Sarah Matthes will give a public poetry reading on March 21 at 7:30 p.m. in the Hillel House Sanctuary.
Poets Julie Phillips Brown and Brenna Womer will present a public poetry reading on Feb. 2 at 12:15 p.m. in the Science Center Atrium.
Craig Jones has been an active volunteer in his community, particularly the KIPP Metro Atlanta Schools.
Lexington's Downtown Books will host W&L Professor Domnica Radulescu for a book launch on Jan. 27 at 4:30 p.m.
Lauren Hoaglund '22 has parlayed her passion for medieval and Renaissance history, literature, classics and theater into a busy but rewarding four years at W&L.
Miranda was recently awarded the H. Hiter Harris III Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching for 2021.
Jessie van Eerden, an award-winning author, will give a public lecture on her latest novel on Nov. 15 at 6 p.m. in Leyburn Library’s Northen Auditorium. 
Eric Tran, a Vietnamese poet and author, will give a public lecture on Nov. 9 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium on the W&L campus.
Cox is an award-winning historian and a distinguished lecturer for the Organization of American Historians.
Professor Lesley Wheeler will give a public author talk on Sept. 22 as part of Randolph College’s Pearl S. Buck Writers in Residence experience.
Professor Chris Gavaler’s play “The Zombie Life” will open at Firehouse Theatre in Richmond, Virginia on Aug. 18.
Paige Anderson '22 is spending the summer recording an album of classical violin music in memory of her grandmother.
The Miranda Collection for Native American Library Acquisitions will feature books by Native American and Indigenous authors and literature on relevant topics.
The Career Enhancement Fellowship seeks to increase underrepresented junior and other faculty members by creating career development opportunities.
Leah Naomi Green was recognized for her new poem, "Origin Story."
Gordon Ball will read from his recent book, "My San Francisco," on May 13.
James Ricks ’21 has received a Fulbright creative grant to Nepal to photograph patients and healthcare providers at a one-of-a-kind health clinic.
Miranda, who retires from W&L this year, will present a public reading titled “How to Love the Burning World” on April 26.
Life has been a series of firsts for Rita Davis ’93, who now serves as counsel to Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam.
In September 2021, Bull will leave for a 10-month stay in Ecuador to develop a co-creative anthology of stories covering resistance and resilience networks in the Ecuadorian Amazon.
Ramonah Gibson '20 has received a Fulbright United Kingdom (U.K.) Partnership Award to complete her master's degree in creative writing scriptwriting at the University of East Anglia.
Her project, “Age and Growth of Fan Mussel (Pinna nobilis) in Mar Menor,” will take her to Calpe, in Spain this fall.
Kathryn Muensterman ’22 has won a $34,000 Beinecke Scholarship to help fund her graduate studies.
Nadeen Kharputly recently published an article titled "Whose Best Friend? Muslims, Dogs, and the Making of American Humanity."
The community is invited to a virtual talk on April 7 titled "Women in the Arts: Out of the Margins, Into the Light."
Highlights include live performances of works written from artists and scholars nationwide.
Miranda's new poem, "Torch," was selected as the American Academy of Poets' "Poem-a-Day."
The university will host an online poetry reading by eight students in Heid Erdrich’s Master Class in Poetry course on March 15 at 6 p.m.
In “My San Francisco,” Gordon Ball, visiting associate professor of English, recounts experiences of his time spent in the city.
Taylor Walle, assistant professor of English, recently published an article titled "Boswell's Dictionary and the Status of Scots Dialect in the Eighteenth Century."
Green will receive the Lucille Clifton Legacy Award from St. Mary’s College of Maryland on March 1. 
Poet Heid Erdrich will give a public poetry reading on Feb. 8 at 6 p.m.
Professors Leigh Ann Beavers and Chris Gavaler recently published a textbook titled “Creating Comics: A Writer’s and Artist's Guide and Anthology.”
In the article, Brodie discusses Confederate monuments' complex history and how an American contemporary artist is working to change how others view them.
In honor of the Jewish "New Year of the Trees," W&L Hillel, the Native American Cohort and other campus community members will share poems about beloved lands on Jan. 27.
In the interview, Hill discusses her new appointment as W&L provost, effective July 1, 2021.
The Shenandoah magazine team will host a virtual launch party on Dec. 3 at 7 p.m. to celebrate the newest edition of the magazine, which will be available to the public on Dec. 11.
Domnica Radulescu, the Edwin A. Morris Professor of Comparative Literature at W&L, presents her newest co-edited book, “Voices on the Move: An Anthology by and about Refugees.”
Lesley Wheeler, Henry S. Fox Professor of English at Washington and Lee University and poetry editor for Shenandoah magazine, will give a “spooky-themed” author talk on Oct. 27 at 7 p.m.
The lecture, which is free and open to the public to view via Zoom, is titled “Climate Change and Pacific Islander Eco-Poetics.”
Farmer and conservationist Bill Holliday ’65 spent his career fighting to preserve and protect South Carolina’s environment.
Gavaler’s opinion piece is entitled “The problem with 'cancel culture'”
Chris Gavaler and Nathaniel Goldberg have published “Revising Fiction, Fact, and Faith: A Philosophical Account”
Miranda was invited on radio station KPFA’s UpFront to discuss Junipero Serra, the myth of California missions, and the colonization of native people.
The piece appeared in the June 19 edition of The Washington Post.
Wheeler’s first novel, “Unbecoming,” was recently published just two months after the release of her latest poetry collection, “The State She’s In.”
Working in Italy, starring in theater productions and being involved in Generals' Unity are just a few of the experiences that have made W&L a great fit for Win Gustin '20.
Berger has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain starting January 2021.
Green was recently interviewed on NPR’s All Things Considered to discuss “The More Extravagant Feast.”
Wheeler discusses tailoring remote instruction to best serve her students. 
A new play by Professor Domnica Radulescu gives voice to local immigrants.
The event is free and open to the public, and books will be available to purchase following the reading.
Quashie teaches black cultural and literary studies at Brown University.
A student-led annual celebration of black literary culture opened the Student Association for Black Unity’s programming for Black History Month at Washington and Lee University.
Joukhadar will read from and discuss his new novel, “The Thirty Names of Night.”
Provost Marc Conner worked with John Callahan, the literary executor of the Ellison estate, to co-edit and publish the collection. 
Suzanne LaFleur ’05 keeps it real for her young readers.
Students in Leah Green's Intro to Creative Writing course took inspiration from the environment at Boxerwood Nature Center and Woodland Garden.
How Mock Con General Secretary Layne Smith '20 stays sane under the pressure of academics, Mock Con 2020 and acting as head hearing advisor for the W&L Honor System.
 “A Literary Field Guide to Southern Appalachia” contains poems from three W&L faculty members.
Allie Jue '20 has learned how to keep her studies in music and pre-med in perfect harmony with a job and extracurricular activities at W&L.
The public reading is free and open to the public.
Miranda’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “’Coyote Learns a New Trick’: Beth Brant and Two-Spirit Literatures.”
The piece discusses their research studies into sci-fi and the effect it has on human intelligence.
She is the assistant director of the Furious Flower Poetry Center
The duo will be discussing their new book, “Superhero Thought Experiments.”
The reading is free and open to the public, with books for sale following the event.
Chris Gavaler and Nathaniel Goldberg published “Superhero Thought Experiments.”
The focus will be the "1619 Project" and the U.S. Constitution.
The talk is free and open to the public.
Conner is provost and the Jo M. and James Ballengee Professor of English at Washington and Lee University. 
Maya Lora has always wanted to be a storyteller for public good. This summer, she did just that as a reporting intern for her hometown paper, the Miami Herald.
In writing the collection, Smith drew from historical sources and used his imagination and empathy to bring voices of the past to life.
James Ricks '21 is spending the summer working for The Oda Foundation in Nepal, where he is researching tobacco use and working with children to create a mural that represents health in their town.
Green was recently interviewed on NPR’s Morning Edition for the bicentennial of American poet Walt Whitman’s birth.
The medical researcher travels, teaches and conducts research to eliminate neglected tropical diseases.
We asked professors to share course materials and discussion questions to offer a sneak peek at the breadth of opportunities available during the best term of the year. 
Our favorite term is well underway! Here is a glimpse inside some of the many fascinating courses being taught off-campus this year.
 Reese is an English major and studio art minor. 
Camp’s lecture, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Discovering Baghdad: How Writing My Father’s Story Took Me to the Tigris.” 
Hiromasa says her time at Washington and Lee and various volunteer opportunities she has participated in have prepared her for this next step in her educational journey.
Christopher McCrackin ’20 has won a $34,000 Beinecke Scholarship to help fund his graduate studies. 
Hannah Denham '20 and Maya Lora '20 earned awards for their reporting and writing.
Agrippina has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain.
The weekend’s seminar will feature Delia Owens, author of the critically acclaimed debut novel “Where the Crawdads Sing."
The partnership will bring the company’s national tour and on-site workshops to W&L’s campus.
Leah Naomi Green, visiting assistant professor of English at W&L, was selected by Li-Young Lee as the winner of the 2019 Walt Whitman Award.
MaKayla Lorick '19 is collecting oral histories from African-American alumni, faculty and staff as part of a project that aims to include those missing perspectives in Washington and Lee University's history of desegregation and integration.
The title of McMahon’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is “Brexit on the Border: What We Know and Don’t Know about Irish/UK Relations.”
The title of Barnett’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is “Lost (And Found Again) in Translation.”
“An Afternoon with Rebecca Traister,” on Feb. 11 at 5:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, is free and open to the public.
The title of her talk, which is free and open to the public, is "Exile in Memory."
Studying Arabic in Jordan and Lebanon has given Sierra Terrana '20 a new outlook on Islam and the Middle East—one that she hopes to parlay into a legal career.
 Aimee Nezhukumatathil will  give a public reading from her work on Jan. 14 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. 
Beth Staples reinvents W&L's Shenandoah magazine with a commitment to diverse voices and intensive collaboration.
The event is free and open to the public, and books will be available for sale following the reading.
Joel Bernstein ’57 brings his passion for Native American art to W&L with a groundbreaking new exhibition.
The talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled "Fame and Fortune in the Age of Austen."
Friends and classmates of Jeanne de Saussure Smith ’08 have dedicated an E. E. Cummings painting to W&L in her memory.
James Ricks '21 interviews Dr. Jonathan Wortham '04 about his work with the Centers for Disease Control.
The reading will be Oct. 18 at 8:15 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. 
Lunch will be served, and the event is free and open to the public; however, RSVP is required by Oct. 22 to oconnells@wlu.edu.
Her latest novel, "The Great Believers," was a finalist for the National Book Award in fiction and was one of three finalists for the Pulitzer Prize in fiction.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Midha Ahmad '21 and Sawera Khan '21 to spend the summer in Pakistan, where they compared alternative medicine to traditional treatment.
The Professor Sidney M.B. Coulling ’46 Scholarship Endowment.
Professor Ricardo Wilson's Spring Term class spent 10 days writing short fiction at Skylark Nature Preserve and Lodge in Raphine.
The spring issue announces the retirement of R.T. Smith and the hiring of new editor Beth Staples.
Shapley Davis '18 produced and premiered his own short film, and he hopes to continue making films as he heads off to USC's film school after graduation.
ODK inducted four honorary and seven student initiates
This reading is sponsored by the Glasgow Endowment and is free and open to the public.
Reese and two friends brought the First-Generation Low-Income Partnership to W&L, where it provides resources and a voice for students.
A reception and book sale will follow the reading, which is free and open to the public.
Tom Wolfe '51 will be in attendance.
Smith has edited Shenandoah since 1995 and received a 2008 Virginia Governor’s Arts Award for publishing excellence. 
“The Goddess Diaries” is an ongoing theatrical production featuring true-life stories of women.
Gay’s poetry often explores questions of race, as well as his symbiotic passions for gardening and community activism.
Bell is an old-time musician and square dance caller, as well as a poet.
Taylor is the author of two collections of poetry and a chapbook.
Washington and Lee's Special Collections contains a rare volume of poetry by Wheatley, the first published African-American poet. 
The British author will deliver the lecture, titled “The Word-Hoard: A Counter-Desecration Phrasebook for The Anthropocene.”
Wheeler will read from her poetry chapbook, “Propagation,” while Senechal De La Roche will read from her poetry collection “Blind Flowers.”
Suzanne Keen, dean of the College and Thomas H. Broadus Professor of English at Washington and Lee University, has been named vice president for academic affairs and dean of faculty at Hamilton College, Clinton, New York. She will begin her new role on July 1, 2018.
Chris Gavaler discussed the paper he co-authored with professor Dan Johnson, The Genre Effect, with The Guardian.
The best place to research your thesis? Some would say the library, but for Jacqueline Moruzzi '18 that place is the Cambridge University's Medieval Studies Summer Program.
This is Brodie’s third writer’s fellowship this year.
Emily St. John Mandel will read from her most recent book, “Station Eleven.”
Danielle Hughson's honors thesis will be focused on male editorial control and how it affects female writers, within a familial and patriarchal context.
Washington and Lee Spanish professor Seth Michelson has compiled a book of poems written by incarcerated undocumented teens and translated by some of his students and him.
Four Martin Luther tracts housed in W&L's Special Collections were fully restored in time for the 500th anniversary of the start of the Protestant Reformation.
Each year Appalachian State honors distinguished undergraduate or graduate alumni from a department within the college.
Vishnuvajjala’s talk is titled “Arthurian Authority: Face-to-Face With the King.”
Huntley taught at Washington and Lee University for 32 years until his retirement in 1994.
W&L's Marc Conner co-chaired a conference on Ellison at the University of Oxford.
Hannah Palmatary '18 spent the summer discovering the ancient ruins of Greece, as well as her own talent and passion for creative writing.
Stewart’s talk will include readings from her poetry collection “Cinder.”
The prize is presented by The Missouri Review for the best short story chosen from their four issues published in the last year.
Through numerous clubs, her classwork and her peers, JoAnn Michel '18 has found a place to grow at W&L.
This summer, Allison Jue '20 dove into the books to learn more about the relationship between Queen Elizabeth I and the second Earl of Essex.
This lecture is part of the Alumni College's summer program, "The Ireland of Yeats and Joyce."
Elena Diller '17 and Caroline Todd '17 saw a need for more perspective in academics — so they got to work.
Amirah S. Ndam Njoya ‘17 believes leadership, travelling, service, and scholarship are all vital parts of the W&L experience.
“Duet” is about mountain dulcimer players Jean and Bayliss Ritchie, of Viper, Kentucky, and will be on the website Poetry Daily on May 20
The life mask is perhaps the single most valuable item in a collection of more than 1,000 Dickey items in W&L Special Collections.
WDBJ-7 interviewed Dana Gary '18 and Austin Frank '17 about student-run label Friday Underground Records.
Briggs will speak on “James Dickey and ‘Life’: How Poems Are Made.” 
Ann Fisher-Wirth and Laura-Gray Street will hold a joint reading and talk on ecological approaches to poetry.
Washington and Lee will host a reception celebrating Paqui Toscano's selection as a Rhodes Scholar on Friday, March 17, from 4:30 - 5:30 p.m. in the Commons Living Room.
Dana Gary, whose first EP is recorded, produced and publicized by a student-run record label, will present songs at SSA.
An opinion piece by Chris Gavaler, assistant professor of English, appeared in the Mar. 5 2017 edition of the Roanoke Times.
Washington and Lee University has named Marc C. Conner as provost. Conner, the Jo M. and James M. Ballengee Professor of English, has been serving as W&L’s interim provost since January 2016.
R.T. Smith, editor of Shenandoah and the Writer in Residence at W&L, will have his poem, “Maricon,” featured in The Best American Poetry 2017.
Alvin Carl Hollingsworth was a leading African-American artist whose works can be seen in W&L's Leyburn Library.
Professors Marc Conner and Lucas Morel will present the John Chavis Lecture in African-American Studies, titled "The New Territory: Ralph Ellison and the 21st Century."
Dr. Mark Rankin, associate professor of English at James Madison University, will give a public lecture on "The Illustrations of Foxe's ‘Book of Martyrs’ and their Publishing History."
Michael Hill, associate professor of English at the University of Iowa, will deliver a public lecture on “‘American Dreamin’: Adolescence in the Black Imagination.”
Poet and author Susan Briante will read from “The Market Wonders,” a lyric investigation into the stock market.
Writer Charles Johnson mentioned two members of the Washington and Lee community in a New York Times piece.
W&L's 8th Annual Writer in Residence Poetry Reading will feature John Hoppenthaler and R.T. Smith.
Ward Briggs ’67 has memorialized his longtime friend, writer James Dickey, with a large donation of Dickey materials to Washington and Lee Special Collections.
Pasquale “Paqui” Toscano, a classics and English double major, is Washington and Lee’s 16th Rhodes Scholar.  The Rhodes Trust announced Sunday that Toscano, 22, of Kettering, Ohio, was one of 32 scholars chosen this year. The scholarships, valued at between $50,000 to $200,000, fully fund two to four years of study at the University of Oxford in England.
Imani Perry, the Hughes-Rogers Professor of African American Studies at Princeton University, will speak on “The Passionate Utterance: Black Women’s Literature and Freedom Dreams.”
Gordon Ball, visiting associate professor of English at Washington and Lee, says Bob Dylan's Nobel recognition is "vindication" after Ball nominated the singer-songwriter for the award 15 years in a row.
MK Asante, bestselling author, award-winning filmmaker, rapper and professor, will give the Oct. 15 keynote address for the annual Bonner Congress, held this year at Washington and Lee University. The lecture will be at 9 a.m. in Stackhouse Theater and is free and open to the public.
Lara Farina, an associate professor of English at West Virginia University, will give a lecture at Washington and Lee University on Oct. 27 at 12:15–1:15 p.m. in Hillel House Multipurpose Room 101.
English major Kassie Scott '18 interns for an NGO focused on human rights and gender equality in Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
Author and poet Erika Meitner will be reading from her work at Washington and Lee University on Sept. 28 at 4:30 p.m. in the Hillel House Multipurpose Room (room 101).
Nigel Smith, the William and Annie S. Paton Foundation Professor of Ancient and Modern Literature at Princeton University, will give a lecture at Washington and Lee University on Sept. 22 at 5 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
Kiki Martire is an English major with a minor in women's and gender studies from Baltimore, Md. A member of the Class of 2015, she traveled abroad to the South Pacific during her junior year.
Fort Dauphin, Madagascar.
"In my four years here, most of my 'classrooms' were not in a classroom."
"W&L has allowed me to satisfy my need to wander."
Recipients of W&L's Certificate of International Immersion reflect on their experiences abroad.
Kiki Martire '15 studies challenges to women in political leadership in Samoa.
Margaret McClintock is an English major with a minor in art history from Tunica, Miss. A member of the Class of 2015, she has been president of the Panhellenic Council, and Appalachian Adventure Trip leader, a member of the Contact Committee, the Student Faculty Hearing Board, the Student Affairs Committee and Traveller.
"I have been challenged to step outside my comfort zone, encouraged to pursue my passions, and nurtured as a student, a leader and an individual."
Intern at Grow Marketing in San Francisco.
W&L Students Distill Shakespeare Plays to Their Essence.
English and journalism major Sara Korash-Schiff '15 interns in book publishing in Nashville.
Anna DiBenedetto '15 interns at HGTV magazine.
"College is a place where you will grow no matter how you go through it. The only thing you control is who you grow to be."
"W&L has given me the resources and experiences that I need to continue my intellectual, professional, and emotional growth outside of Lexington."
"Creativity has many meanings, but for me and with regards to my college experience, it means the opportunity to shape my own identity."
"At W&L you'll find the support to pursue anything."
"I am where I am because of W&L."
Johnson Opportunity Grant winner gets a taste of state politics the Tennessee State Capitol.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete English archive.