These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university.
The assistant professor of history will hold her talk on Feb. 7 at noon in the Harte Center Gallery.
Megan Dufault ’24 is studying the risks that environmental pollutants pose to fetal development.
The professor has also published two literary works in recent months. 
The campus community will recognize women’s achievements with various events throughout the month of March.
The upcoming screening is the second installment in the DeLaney Center's ongoing film series.
Katie Shester is an associate professor of economics and a core faculty member for the Shepherd Program for the Interdisciplinary Study of Poverty and Human Capability, as well as Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies.
Benefiel’s talk “Uncovering the mysteries of Pompeii” will be held on Nov. 10.
Maggie Hardin '22 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany.
Rădulescu's plays capture the challenges and triumphs faced by immigrants and refugees.
Highlights include presentations from scholars from around the world, staged readings and keynote speaker Martha Kebalo, a UN representative for the World Federation of Ukrainian Women’s Organizations.
The campus will celebrate women’s achievements with various events throughout the month of March.
The picnic is an annual tradition on the W&L campus.
Paige Anderson '22 is spending the summer recording an album of classical violin music in memory of her grandmother.
Bioh's hit comedy "School Girls; Or, The African Mean Girls Play" will be screened online March 16, and a virtual talk by Bioh will occur March 18.
The WGSS Program at W&L is celebrating the milestone with a series of events that include a film screening, art exhibits and panel discussions. 
The Jan. 26 event, which is free and open to the public to view online, will celebrate 20 Years of WGSS at W&L.
Erin Hughes '21 wants to use lessons learned in the classroom and on the basketball court to fight for systemic change in the world.
When her summer research trip to Nepal was canceled because of COVID-19, Danika Brockman went to work for the Rockbridge Area Relief Association, where she helps with the food pantry.
The recent graduate of Washington and Lee University won a combined scholarship of $8,500 for her second-place win and article of the year award in the 60th Annual Hearst National Writing Championship.
Working in Italy, starring in theater productions and being involved in Generals' Unity are just a few of the experiences that have made W&L a great fit for Win Gustin '20.
At W&L, Gareth Minson '20 has been able to forge his own educational path at the intersection of political philosophy, education policy and women, gender and sexuality studies.
The celebration includes a film screening, a faculty panel and a trivia game. All events are free and open to the public.
Snyder is a journalist known for her works on the topic of domestic violence.
Hannah Denham ’20 won first place in a prestigious feature writing competition for a piece she wrote during an internship at The Washington Post.
Danika Brockman '21 interviews Natasha Lerner '13 about making a difference in women's health.
Minson is a politics major, with a minor in women’s gender and sexuality studies. 
Olubunmi is an entrepreneur and global advocate for migrants, refugees, and internally displaced people. Her talk, free and open to the public, is entitled “When Lions Write: Innovations in Advocacy.”
Andy Smithey '20 is editor-in-chief of a new student publication, founded by Liv Cooper '20 and Genna Feirson '20, that aims to amplify unheard voices on campus.
Hannah Denham '20 has combined business journalism with women and gender studies at W&L to create a liberal arts education that suits her interests and ambition.
Rebecca M. Jordan-Young, a sociomedical scientist, is the fourth speaker in the 2017-18 “Ethics of Identity” series.
The panel, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Kavanaugh, SCOTUS Confirmation Hearings, and #whyididntreport.”
W&L History Professor Sarah Horowitz addresses "the upper-class claim to a right to rule — and misrule" in the Washington Post.
ODK inducted four honorary and seven student initiates
“The Goddess Diaries” is an ongoing theatrical production featuring true-life stories of women.
Her poem "Nasty Woman" and performance were the inspiration for a student-created dance.
Kelly Douma ’16 is on track to complete her doctorate in early modern German history and women’s studies by 2021.
Laura I. Gómez, founder and CEO of venture-backed startup Atipica, Inc., is the sixth speaker in the 2017-18 Equality and Difference series.
Danielle Hughson's honors thesis will be focused on male editorial control and how it affects female writers, within a familial and patriarchal context.
Liz Todd '19 was able to extend her Spring Term Abroad and spend the summer in Brazil, where she worked for an environmental agency.
Melina Bell discusses “2017’s Best & Worst States for Women’s Equality in a recent WalletHub article.
Elena Diller '17 and Caroline Todd '17 saw a need for more perspective in academics — so they got to work.
W&L students reflect on their experiences at the Women's March.
Gwyn E. Campbell, professor of Spanish at Washington and Lee University, is the new associate dean of the college, beginning July 1. She succeeds Marcia France, who has held that post since 2012.
Kara Karcher '11 is parlaying her studies in poverty and women's and gender studies into a law career dedicated to helping women and children.
A discussion of "Gender Shrapnel in the Workplace," mentoring students and supporting W&L athletics.
Lara Farina, an associate professor of English at West Virginia University, will give a lecture at Washington and Lee University on Oct. 27 at 12:15–1:15 p.m. in Hillel House Multipurpose Room 101.
The Anne and Edgar Basse Jr. Author Talk Series, presented by the Leyburn University Library at Washington and Lee University, will begin this academic year with a talk by Professor Ellen Mayock on Tuesday, Sept. 20.
Hit Show Inspires Spring Term Course on the Politics of Race and Gender.
Kiki Martire is an English major with a minor in women's and gender studies from Baltimore, Md. A member of the Class of 2015, she traveled abroad to the South Pacific during her junior year.
Recipients of W&L's Certificate of International Immersion reflect on their experiences abroad.
Kiki Martire '15 studies challenges to women in political leadership in Samoa.
"W&L has certainly taught me to expect the unexpected in a community of unique individuals."
"Friend groups are everywhere, traditions are most places, but the caring professors and impassioned students I have found in the German and History departments are one of a kind."
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies archive.