Scott’s passion for the environment carries over from the classroom to opportunities on campus and beyond.
These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university.
New Williams School construction and Elrod Commons Phase 2 renovations both remain on schedule, while the new Lindley Center for Student Wellness will break ground soon.
The April 4 showcase is hosted by W&L’s Connolly Center for Entrepreneurship.
Leading Campus Kitchen, a student-run organization focused on addressing food insecurity, has been a rewarding experience.
University Provost Lena Hill addressed new members of ODK during their spring induction ceremony.
Bright Frimpong and Keri Larson teamed with two others to produce a paper on crowdfunding that was featured in the Journal of Business Venturing Insights.
The Critical Language Scholarship Program funds a summer of overseas language and cultural immersion.
The professor of accounting will receive the 2023 Accounting Historians Journal Award at the organization’s annual meeting in August. 
W&L's Office of Career and Professional Development gave students the opportunity to network and explore potential career paths over Washington Break.
Frederick will serve as co-presenter for a session that demonstrates the beneficial uses of technology in the curriculum mapping process.
Unger embraces the full W&L experience, including incredible academic opportunities and being a DIII athlete.
Morel’s talk “Lincoln, the 1860 Election & The Future of Slavery in America” will be held March 12 in Northen Auditorium.
Liz Mira Santi ’24 came to W&L as a Gunn Scholar in 2023, and her time on campus has expanded her worldview and reinforced her ambitions.
A four-person team comprised of John Schleider ‘24, Diwesh Kumar ‘24, Bradford Bush ’25 and Drew Thompson ‘25 claimed the $3,000 top prize for their pitch on CVS Health.
Jessica Pachuca ’25 and Gabe Miller ’25 will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Carnegie Mellon University this summer.
Peter Grajzl is the John F. Hendon Professor of Economics.
Smith’s W&L experience includes finding a family in his lacrosse teammates and helping other students discover their career paths as a career fellow. 
Laura Murambadoro ’26 brings varied interests, a collaborative leadership style and a passion for community engagement to W&L’s campus.
The March 7 talk in University Chapel was made possible by a $5,000 grant from the Virginia Society of the Cincinnati.
The W&L professor of politics will present on this year’s Nobel Peace Prize winner, Narges Mohammadi, on March 8 in Leyburn 128.
“W&L After Class,” now entering its fifth season, invites listeners to join conversations with W&L’s expert faculty about their teaching, research and passion projects.
W&L’s assistant director of academic resources completed a rigorous program to earn the International Coaching Federation’s ACC certification.
Rubel’s lecture will be held in Northen Auditorium on Feb. 22 at 5:30 p.m.
Washington and Lee students are applying their accounting skills in the community as part of the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance program. 
The Chilean activist’s talk will be held Feb. 12 at 5 p.m.
Accounting major Darya Philips ’24 counts her semester abroad as one of the greatest experiences of her life.
A global politics and economics double major, Dantini found his ‘home’ on campus with the University Singers.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Five-Star Distinguished Alumni Award winners
Newly promoted faculty members will present their research in a PechaKucha format on Jan. 30.
The current director of the Center for Teaching and Learning at Quinnipiac University will begin his new role effective June 1.
Professor and collection strategist named a Library Journal Reviewer of the Year 2023.
The second-year faculty member co-authored a paper analyzing the effect of CEO age on financial reporting quality and clawback provisions.
Alam will speak on Feb. 16 at 4 p.m. as part of the W&L/VMI Economics Seminar Series.
Grajzl’s talk “An Economist’s Walk Through English Legal and Cultural History” will be held on Jan. 25 in Northen Auditorium.
Politics professor Clyde Wang offers perspective on government intervention to combat declining birth rates in China.
Students in the Williams School consulted on a number of projects including marketing, research and social media strategy for businesses and organizations.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Josh Rassin ’24 will begin his two-year placement with a startup company following graduation.
Washington and Lee’s Interfraternity Council, National Panhellenic Conference and National Pan-Hellenic Council focus on community-building, education and fundraising throughout the year.
The 28th Mock Convention’s Presidential Gala on Nov. 12 offered the campus a glimpse of the upcoming excitement for the 2024 mock presidential convention.
The second-year faculty member co-authored a paper analyzing the relation between institutional ownership and earnings management. 
Mathen’s talk “Dilemmas of Democracy” will be held Nov. 13.
Kaplan’s talk “Between Empire and Anarchy from the Mediterranean to China” will be held Nov. 8.
The Williams School and Department of Economics provided the opportunity for students to network and explore careers in the field of economics.
Art Goldsmith will deliver the fall lecture for the Richmond Association of Business Economics and the Virginia Association of Economists on Oct. 27.
The United Bank senior executive engages with the W&L community through student recruitment and event participation.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Young Alumni Award winners
Washington and Lee's Leading Edge program welcomed the Class of 2027 to campus with dynamic programs designed to build community.
Andrew Tartakovsky ’23 received a Fulbright grant to teach English in Azerbaijan.
The two-day event will be held on campus Sept. 29-30.
Megan Hess collected the award at the AAA Annual Meeting in August.
Professor Jay Margalus co-authored pieces featured in bioRxiv and for the International Symposium on Academic Makerspaces. 
A total of 20 new faculty are joining the university this year.
A total of 25 new instructors join the W&L community.
Caraballo is one of 369 students from across the U.S. to receive the merit scholarship from the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Denny Garvis and Zoila Ponce de León presented a two-day online workshop on applying adaptive and interactive learning practices in undergraduate statistics courses.
Annual Provost’s Lecture celebrates W&L faculty for excellence in scholarship and teaching.
Harris Hubbard ’23 will attend graduate school at Rutgers University Business School before joining Wells Fargo as an investment banking analyst.
This summer, Washington and Lee students experienced life in London as part of an immersive program offered through the Williams School.
The W&L community is invited to the 2023 Convocation on the Front Lawn on Sept. 7 at 5:30 p.m.
Caroline Wise ’23 is working as a backcountry guide for St. Elias Alpine Guides in Alaska.
Ellie Penner ’23 received a Boren Scholarship to study Hindi in India.
Pooja Thakur-Wernz presented her paper at the Academy of International Business Conference in Warsaw, Poland on July 9.
Megan Hess offers perspective on the importance of determining the scope of inventory shrinkage.
Weaver’s advice for current students: Take advantage of every opportunity and embrace respectful debate.
Linda Hooks’ comments were featured regarding the stubborn phase of inflation cooling.
For Tilbor, W&L instilled a healthy curiosity and a lifelong love of learning.
Misty Snider serves as the executive assistant of the Williams School.
Justin Davis studied numerous Kickstarter campaigns and published the findings alongside three colleagues.
The 2023 Spring Term course "Threats to Democracy" examined the form of government and explored the current challenges it faces.
Young learned the critical skills to excel at her job from the veteran journalists in Reid Hall.
W&L celebrates its 236th undergraduate Commencement Thursday, May 25, at 10 a.m.
Washington and Lee seniors David Onyejekwe ’23, Jake McCabe ’23 and Bailey Keel ’23 have created lasting connections with the local community as volunteer coaches for Lex Lax youth lacrosse.
Haydon credits the W&L community for inspiring him and guiding him toward success.
Niels-Hugo Blunch was selected for the post at the organization’s annual meeting last month.
The Phi Beta Kappa chapter at Washington and Lee University welcomed 49 students into the prestigious honor society.
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join a conversation with W&L’s expert faculty on their teaching, research interests and passion projects.
Zoila Ponce de León’s chapter is titled “Health Care and the Public-Private Mix in Mexico, Chile, and Peru” and appears in the Latin American section of the publication.
Jana Hulsey ’25 and Jalen Todd ’25 will work with programs in Washington, D.C. for eight weeks over the summer. 
Barringer appreciates the learning experience he gained during his summer internship, both professionally and personally. 
Rojas has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Mexico.
Barrow’s experience at W&L gave him the confidence to work through any challenge or opportunity.
The retired U.S. ambassador’s talk, “Russia-Ukraine: The Conflict and the Context,” will be held in Northen Auditorium on April 26.
The Honorable J. Michael Luttig ’76 will visit campus May 8-9 to reflect on his career and discuss his views on recent challenges to democracy and the rule of law.
As well as operating her own farm, Professor Harris teaches American politics, public policy and food policy.
For W&L alumni Kevin Green ’07 and Amanda Green ’06, nature and nurture go hand-in-hand.
Nate Abercrombie ’20, conservative outreach coordinator at Citizens Climate Lobby, works toward finding common ground.
The two-day conference in March provided a unique opportunity for students to conduct and share original research in a professional setting.
Lowry taught at W&L for more than 35 years.
Godsey has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Taiwan.
Tartakovsky has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Azerbaijan, his parents’ homeland.
Dixon has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Taiwan.
Jackson Flower will share his research at The Virginia Commonwealth University on April 7.
Dylan Santella ’25 presented “Gender and The Face: Expanding Upon the Butlerian Model of Ethics” at the undergraduate conference held March 31 at Swarthmore College.
Tobeason appreciates the balance she’s found at W&L as a student-athlete.
Mott will pursue a master’s degree in digital media and society at Cardiff University.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Alumni Award winners
Mock Convention made its Spring Kickoff event an informative preview of upcoming convention conversations.
Professor Blunch’s talk will be held in Northen Auditorium on March 29.
Kavanagh encourages current students to "never be afraid to reach out to the W&L network."
Nancy Reinhart '00 is a midwife and health care practitioner who empowers women and families during their pregnancy.
Philip Jefferson’s talk in Stackhouse Theater on March 27 is free and open to the public.
A new Williams School facility and renovations to University Chapel and Sydney Lewis Hall among several projects on the horizon.
The fourth edition of “Comparative Politics” is a collaboration between faculty in W&L’s Department of Politics and Department of Sociology and Anthropology.
The W&L community event will be held on Tuesday, March 21, at 6 p.m. in W&L’s University Chapel.
Bernbaum is inspired by W&L’s emphasis on community-based learning.
Mock Convention is gathering steam as the organization prepares for its Spring Kickoff event on March 21.
Scott Holcomb ’23 and Josh Fingerhut ’24 claimed a $2,500 prize for their pitch on Diamondback Energy.
The professor of business administration shared his thoughts on ChatGPT and what AI means for higher education.
Oluwakuyide will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at the University of Washington this summer.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Five-Star Distinguished Alumni Awards winners
Moran is inspired by W&L’s values and commitment to liberal arts education.
John W. Schindler will serve a five-year renewable contract with the organization that promotes international financial stability.
The scholarship provides young scholars with an immersive experience in Asia through which they can learn to "be comfortable being uncomfortable." 
Enrico de Alessandrini ’84, P’23 is the owner of award-winning Sassaia Winery.
Etter plans to attend graduate school and pursue a career in mathematics.
W&L’s distinctive summer programming helped Burks-Parra develop her personal and professional interests.
New members will serve a six-year term supporting Dean Rob Straughan and the school’s faculty members.
Professors Emily Landry and Jim Casey both spoke at the workshop held in Havana.
Wingard Cunningham joins W&L from College of Wooster, where she is the Mildred Foss Thompson Professor of English and dean for faculty development.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate student recipients.
Community-Based Learning’s collaborations this fall offered students an opportunity to deepen community connections.
This fall, Washington and Lee Student Consulting tackled a new project for a local business with a sustainability focus.
Professor Lynn Uzzell shared her expertise on the disputed document known as the Pinckney Plan.
Chantal Smith, assistant professor of economics, was selected for the one-year position to pursue research and course development.
Lozinskaya, a 2022 graduate, will receive a master’s degree in global affairs from Tsinghua University in China.
W&L Law graduate met with professor Brian Alexander’s Congress and the Legislative Process class to discuss Thomas Jefferson’s Manual of Parliamentary Practice.
Katie Shester is an associate professor of economics and a core faculty member for the Shepherd Program for the Interdisciplinary Study of Poverty and Human Capability, as well as Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies.
Art Goldsmith is completing his one-year term as president of the Southern Economic Association.
Center announces new personnel, supports research opportunities and introduces programs for the campus community.
The panel will discuss "What Happened Last Night?” on Nov. 9 at 6 p.m. in Newcomb Hall.
Seth Cantey is an associate professor of politics and a core faculty member for the Middle East and South Asian Studies program.
Kim Stanley Robinson, an award-winning author, will give a public lecture on Nov. 10 at 6:15 p.m. in the University Chapel.
Ahmad Ohmid Arman ’23 arrived on campus as a Gunn Scholar in 2021 and is making the most of his long-awaited W&L experience.
Zoila Ponce de León recognized by the Journal for Latin American Studies.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Young Alumni Award winners
Professor Ayse Zarakol will give a public lecture on Nov. 14 at 5:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.
Alice Tianbo Zhang’s research is being used to shed light on the impact of the pandemic on business activities in Indian Country.
The College, the Williams School and the Law School have combined to hire 25 visiting faculty members and two postdoctoral fellows for 2022-23.
Combined, the College, the Williams School and the Law School have hired 23 Faculty Members.
Peter Grajzl named a 2022 winner of the Elinor Ostrom Prize.
Zoila Ponce de León will utilize the grant to study immigration and deportation in the U.S. and Brazil. 
He taught in the Accounting Department from 1984 to 2007.
A passionate conservationist, Niquole Esters ’04 has crafted complex approaches encompassing multiple countries to improve ocean health and benefit local communities.
Erin Gray helped form and reported the results from a collaborative work group
Collin Frazey ’23 spent his summer working for Meta's intellectual property team in the heart of Silicon Valley.
Brendan Smith ’24 worked in the British House of Commons as a parliamentary research intern in London.
Ponce de Leon's paper "Women Want an Answer! Field Experiments on Elected Officials and Gender Bias" was featured in the Harvard Gendar Action Portal
By his sophomore year at W&L, McPheeters knew he wanted to go into investment banking after graduation. Today, he works as an investment banking analyst in Houlihan Lokey's Industrials group in New York City.
Cleveland is working as a trip leader for an active travel company in Alaska this summer, and she plans to work in Europe this fall. 
As director, Loar is responsible for the management and administration of the program
Kayla Monaghan ’24 is collaborating on a Summer Research Scholars (SRS) project to enhance resources available through Leyburn Library.
Hosted during Parents and Family Weekend, the Sept. 30 event will kick off the 28th Mock Convention.
This fall, Jin Ni ’22 will pursue her master’s degree in human rights at University College London in the United Kingdom.  
Diwesh Kumar ’24 is developing investment banking expertise at his summer internship at Boxwood Partners in Richmond, Virginia. 
Another record-setting year for nationally competitive fellowships at W&L can be attributed to forward-thinking educators, hard-working students and an encouraging fellowships director.
Lily Mott '23 is interning this summer at News Over Audio in Dublin, Ireland, where she is finding fulfillment at the intersection of politics and journalism.
After a successful summer internship in 2021, W&L's Rett Daugbjerg '22 is now working for JLL's Capital Markets group in Atlanta, Georgia. 
Kristen Xu ’22 worked diligently during her time at W&L to accomplish her dream of working with a beauty company after graduation. Currently, she is a global marketing coordinator at NARS Cosmetics in New York.
Eric Bazile '25 is interning with the Austin Greater Chamber of Commerce through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty (SHECP).
Shrestha worked with the Office of Career and Professional Development at W&L to "engineer" the perfect career after graduation. 
Rosen utilized summer internships to help land his current role as an analyst at SVB Securities. 
Burden is taking her talents to New York City to work in strategic planning at advertising agency BBDO.
Caroline Wise '23 is spending her second summer working as an alpine guide in Alaska.
Alice Tianbo Zhang's research on energy access was featured in the June 16 edition of Nature Energy
Sharman will put his degrees to use in a position on Capitol Hill.
Sheridan, a business administration and studio art major, will be joining the wealth management team at UBS in New York City.
Peter Grajzl has been named a finalist for the 2022 Elinor Ostrom Prize for two articles he co-authored in 2020. 
Kingwill has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Uzbekistan. He will depart in September 2022 for his 10-month program. 
After her USTA program orientation in September, Joey Dickinson will be teaching in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
The Williams School congratulates the Class of 2022 graduates who received awards and honors for academic excellence during their time at W&L.
Launched this year, the ECON 271 Peer Tutors program is a weekly drop-in option for students looking for a deeper understanding of course material through interactions with their peers.
Mosher has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Kazakhstan. He will also spend this summer receiving intensive Russian language training in Tbilisi, Georgia.
In his remarks, President Will Dudley urged the Class of 2022 to carry forward the lessons they’ve learned and make a positive impact in their future communities.
As we say farewell to the members of Washington and Lee University's Class of 2022, let's take a look back at their first days as Generals.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Johnston was recently awarded a fellowship to the Center for Arabic Study Abroad at the American University in Cairo.
Carley will serve as an English language teaching assistant in a school in the former Soviet republic.
Meet Taylor Garcia, a politics major and Law, Justice, and Society minor who plays varsity tennis at W&L.
Wilkerson received an All-American Attorney Award from the American Mock Trial Association.
Lane Johansen was inspired by an unforgettable summer in Ukraine.
Hughes' public lecture, titled "Ethical Considerations for the Application of Machine Learning at Scale" will be delivered on May 2 at 4 p.m.
Hess, associate professor of accounting at W&L, discusses her passion for teaching classes like "Anatomy of a Fraud," a popular Spring Term class about corporate fraud
Addison has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Uruguay, where she will teach English to primary or secondary school students and serve as a cultural ambassador for the United States.
Tripathi will teach English to students in Colombia for 10 months.
Lee has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Costa Rica starting in early 2023.
Keeley will live in a German community for one academic year to teach English to students in a local school.
Capt. Connor Smithson ’13 channels his creative energies into his small woodworking shop specializing in custom flags, plaques and furniture pieces.
The Phi Beta Kappa chapter at Washington and Lee University welcomed 57 students into the prestigious honor society. 
The professor of business administration emeritus taught at W&L from 1974 - 1999.
W&L's 10th Annual Entrepreneurship Summit will feature a keynote address by Ted Elliott ’94, chief executive officer of Copado. 
Research by Alexander and Williams on Thomas Jefferson’s “Manual and the Modern Rules of the U.S. Congress” is featured in the spring 2022 edition of Fine Books & Collections magazine.
Johansen plans to head to Eastern Europe after graduation to serve Ukrainian refugees.
Between the classroom and her community volunteer work, Katherine Ho '23 has built a W&L experience that is already paying off in the career world.
Members of the Washington and Lee University community are responding to last month’s incursion by offering educational opportunities and raising funds for relief efforts.
Chantal Smith, assistant professor of economics at Washington and Lee University, was recently elected to the Executive Board of Directors for the National Economic Association (NEA).
Zhang's paper is titled, "Electoral Backlash or Positive Reinforcement? Wind Power and Congressional Elections in the United States."
Lynn Uzzell is a visiting assistant professor of politics at Washington and Lee University.
The spring event is scheduled for Friday and Saturday, April 29-30 on campus.
Professor of Politics Rebecca Harris recently published "Party Food: A Partisan History of Food & Farming in America."
Nick Mosher '22 always finds support at W&L, whether he's writing a thesis on Russian politics, starting an online human rights newspaper or helping the football team win ODACs.
The book will prove invaluable in helping students gain a better understanding of the theory and practice of environmental and natural resource economics.
Professor Shikha Silwal's paper discusses looting and destruction of cultural heritage sites and objects during epochs of violence.
Packer offers fresh insights into how Americans can use an underlying passion for equality to lead us toward a more unified, progressive nation.
This year's observance of MLK day will comprise a variety of events and lectures.
John Adekola ’24 sees his role with Phonathon as a chance to make a difference at W&L.
Through her coaching business, Shana Horrigan ’91 works with clients of all ages, in the U.S. and across the globe, who feel they are at a turning point in their lives. 
Among different research findings, this study shows that there are still enormous barriers to healthcare access in Peru.
The grant provides funds to support W&L student projects across the United States and worldwide.
In addition to pursuing a double major at Washington and Lee, Jackson Hotchkiss ’24 is a competitive cycler who just placed fourth in his age group in a national cycling championship.
Davies' public lecture was titled "The Path to Kina Convertibility: Foreign Exchange Market of Papua New Guinea."
Davies' paper examines recent conditions in Papua New Guinea’s foreign exchange market.
’Tis the season for holiday events on campus and in the local community! Check out what’s happening and make plans to ring in the holiday season.
Against a national backdrop of mental health concerns, Washington and Lee's University Counseling Center recently rolled out new programs to increase the ways in which students can reach out for help. 
At W&L, student volunteers in the peer counseling program, Washingtonian Society and Active Minds supplement University Counseling Center services by offering a caring ear to fellow students.
The Class of 2023 was invited to the first annual Junior Program on Nov. 4, where they engaged in meaningful conversation and networking with campus community members.
Seay's business, GOES, involves using specialized greenhouses as a form of carbon capture technology.
The university recently celebrated National First-Generation College Student Day to recognize student achievement and remind the community about support resources for first-generation and low-income students at W&L.
Under the Ted DeLaney Postdoctoral Program, Washington and Lee University is welcoming new faculty each year from underrepresented groups. 
Hooks was quoted in a recent Business Interview article titled “Monetary Policy: How the Federal Reserve Attempts to Control the US economy."
The article examines the impact of a stronger intellectual property rights (IPR) regime through the adoption of Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) on innovation by Indian firms in the bio-pharmaceutical industry.
The Lewis Whitaker Adams Professor of Economics Emeritus was 97.
Sakshi Upadhyay joined the Economics Department as a visiting assistant professor in fall 2021.
 Ponce de León's peer-reviewed journal article focuses on the impact of political parties on healthcare reform in Peru.
Ford joins W&L from Skidmore College, where she is the Quadracci Chair in Social Responsibility, professor of sociology, founder of the Intergroup Relations Program, and director of the Center for Leadership, Teaching, and Learning.
Davies work looks at the setting of exchange rates in resource-rich developing countries.
Caleb Miller joined the Washington and Lee University Politics Department as a visiting assistant professor in fall 2021.
As the academic year began, the Class of 2024 participated in multiple in-person events that allowed them to network and learn more about the many resources available to them at W&L.
Assistant Professor of Economics Mario Negrete joined the W&L Economics Department in fall of 2021.
A year after graduating, Tim Pierce ’20 uses data science to map job skills in Appalachian labor markets.
The panel’s reenactment is titled “Reliving the Constitutional Convention."
The Washington and Lee University community remembered the tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001, with a memorial ceremony and placing of 2,977 American flags on Stemmons Plaza.
Assistant Professor Lingshu Hu joined the Business Administration Department in September 2021.
The undergraduate and law classes of 2020 got a chance to return to campus, experience a traditional in-person ceremony, and celebrate their graduation with friends and family at an event that had been postponed for more than a year amid a pandemic.
The America’s Town Hall program will explore how to understand the legacy of the American Revolution and the founders in the 21st century.
Washington and Lee's newest class moves in, talks about why they chose W&L, and gets ready to rock this academic year. 
Andi Coulter joined the Business Administration department as a visiting assistant professor in fall 2021.
Washington and Lee University marks this milestone anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks with a special collection of stories.
The W&L community is invited to the 2021 Convocation on the Front Lawn on Sept. 9 at 5:30 p.m.
The study showed that highly attractive job-seekers tend to feel more powerful than other candidates, but one simple exercise can level the playing field.
The Washington and Lee University community this year will remember the tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001, with a memorial ceremony, prayer vigil and placing of 2,977 American flags.
The W&L campus is buzzing with life again as students arrive for athletic practice, Pre-Orientation trips and other adventures to usher in Fall Term.
Katana Evans '22 used summer enhancement funds to intern with Rep. Julia Brownley's office and Recovery Organization Resources.
Camilo Alvarez joined Washington and Lee University as the Ted DeLaney Postdoctoral Fellow in Economics in fall 2021.
The official Commencement ceremony for the undergraduate and law Classes of 2020 will take place on Saturday, Sept. 11, beginning at 10:30 a.m. on campus.
Parents and Family Weekend 2021 is scheduled for Oct. 1-3.
A record-setting year for nationally competitive fellowship awards at Washington and Lee University can be attributed to forward-thinking educators, hard-working students and a persistent, encouraging fellowships director. 
Assistant Professor Chantal Smith joined the Economics Department in fall 2021.
Come along for this photo tour of the Houston H. Harte Center for Teaching and Learning, which is now open for collaboration.
W&L's students and visitors will find lots to explore in and around Lexington this year.
Victor Ricciardi, visiting professor of finance at Washington and Lee University, was recently interviewed for MoneyGeek.
Professor Linda Hooks discusses personal loans in a recent WalletHub article.
The assistant professor of business administration combines philosophy and finance to examine organizational behavior in all kinds of business settings.
Professor Stephan Fafatas was recently awarded the 2021 Alfred R. Roberts Memorial Research Award, presented by the Academy of Accounting Historians.
Professor Mark Rush published an opinion piece in The Hill titled, "Partisan bias in the Constitution? Check the data."
Professor Victor Ricciardi was quoted in an article titled “You’re probably sabotaging yourself when it comes to finances. How to spot it — and stop it.”
Coco Ellis Howe ’16 and Tani Greenspan ’16 created a successful online art gallery in the middle of a pandemic.
Robinson succeeds Jamie Kipfer, who is departing the role on June 30.
In a shifting media landscape, Ted Williams ’07 and Mike Allen ’86 are focused on reigniting local journalism through a new business venture.
Politics Professor Lucas Morel was interviewed for the “We the People” podcast.
Mark Rush’s recent article titled “Is Virginia Now a Beacon of Electoral Reform? Yes, but…” appeared in the Spring 2021 publication.
Foxen’s USTA position with Fulbright Austria starts in October 2021.
Campbell has won a Gilman Scholarship to do an internship in Barcelona, Spain.
Watt has received a Fulbright grant to support his research on the importance of small-scale fishing for livelihoods, culture and well-being in Vanuatu, an island nation in the South Pacific. 
Zoila Ponce de León was featured in the Pontifical Catholic University of Peru Research Center's series "Public Policies and Debates."
The faculty and staff of the Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics congratulate our 2021 graduates who have received awards and honors for academic excellence during their time at W&L.
Shikha Silwal recently published "The Economics of Conflict and Peace."
Graduating seniors at Washington and Lee University on Thursday were offered some historical perspective and lauded for their perseverance and resilience.
Johnston has won a Gilman Scholarship to study abroad with Middlebury Abroad at Mohammed V University in Rabat, Morocco.
As we bid farewell (for now) to the Class of 2021, we look back at their very first days on the W&L campus.
Young alumnus Alden Schade shares why he gives back to W&L.
Professor Victor Ricciardi discussed a new category in the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standard
W&L seniors Will Gentry and Gray Carlton started Lexington Harvest Haul to deliver local food to consumers. They’re now looking to sell the successful business before they leave Lexington after graduation.
The program offers participants the opportunity to work in France for seven months, teaching English to French students of all ages.
John Juneau ’18 and Amanda Wahlers ’18 have received pre-doctoral graduate research fellowships from the National Science Foundation. The five-year fellowships include three years of financial support and a cost of education allowance.
Estrada Hamm recently received a David L. Boren Scholarship from the National Security Education Program to study abroad in Jordan.
The “Virginia Tech Coffee with the Chair” series features experts sharing their experiences and successes in economics.
Professor Martin Davies recently consulted on exchange rate policy for the Papua New Guinea Treasury and published his work in a discussion paper.
In 2020, Julie Youngman introduced significant programmatic and curricular development in W&L’s new interdisciplinary program on Law, Justice and Society.
“A Social Theory of Congress: Legislative Norms in the Twenty-First Century” is the newest book on the topic of the U.S. Congress in more than 15 years.
Tim Diette discussed his new journal article, “Does the Negro Need Separate Schools? A Retrospective Analysis of the Racial Composition of Schools and Black Adult Academic and Economic Success,” in Scienmag and The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
From serving on his 10th reunion committee to establishing a scholarship, Yuan Liu '11 proves that W&L ties span continents.
The article is titled “Lava Jato deepened political chaos in Peru and splashes the 18 presidential candidates.”
In a WalletHub piece, Scott Hoover, Washington and Lee University’s A. Stevens Miles Professor of Banking and Finance, answers questions about secured credit cards.
Brian Alexander will also moderate a panel discussion, "Congressional Norms in an Era of Conflict," via Zoom on April 8, at 12 p.m.
Bob Strong will also participate in a panel discussion about the film and the Carter presidency on April 13 at 7 p.m.
Rafay Hassan '22 was looking for a liberal arts university that would give him individualized attention and put his critical thinking skills to the test. He found that and more at W&L. 
Politics professor Lucas Morel recently published an article in Persuasion titled “Speaking the Truth.”
Lynn Uzzell, who teaches in the Politics Department, recently published an article in RealClearPublicAffairs titled "Madison's Five Lessons for Overcoming Polarization."
Twelve students at W&L are creating their own version of the U.S. Constitution in Professor Lynn Uzzell’s politics course.
Poppenberg has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Argentina starting in March 2022.
Ricciardi served as an expert panelist on behavioral finance and retirement planning for the podcast "That Annuity Show" earlier this year.
Professor Thakur-Wernz published a paper in the International Journal of Emerging Markets.
Linda M. Hooks was featured in a recent Wallet Hub article titled "2021's Best & Worst Cities at Money Management."
W&L has allowed Christopher Watt '21 to meet other members of the community and find a future career where three of his passions converge.
   Five students from W&L received Fulbright awards for academic year 2020-2021.
At Pfizer, Michael Benigno ’00 analyzed COVID-19 clinical data in the quest to develop a vaccine and antiviral therapy.
Professor Strong’s op-ed is titled “Donald Trump and the Stress Test of American Democracy.”
Assistant Professor Lloyd Tanlu’s article is titled “Causal Language and Effective Performance Evaluations.”
Despite COVID-19, Jared Nickodem '20 was able to make it to Austria, where he is teaching English to students as part of the U.S. Teaching Assistant Program.
Earlier this month, economics professor Peter Grajzl gave an online presentation for the University of Oxford titled "A machine-learning history of English case law and legal ideas before the Industrial Revolution."
W&L presents a monthlong schedule of events celebrating Black History Month.
The Feb. 11 conversation with Bloom is open to the W&L community.
Strong co-authored an article in The Conversation titled “America’s newest voters look back at the 2020 election – and forward to politics in 2021.”
When her Critical Language Scholarship to China went virtual because of COVID, Kisker '21 got a six-week sampler of the country and its language through her computer screen.
The series will present two events, "Looking at Blackness" and "Legislative Leverage: Democratic Processes as Activism,” in late January.
This year's observance of MLK day will comprise a variety of virtual events and lectures.
New members will be inducted into the national leadership honor society at W&L’s Founders Day/ODK convention, which will take place in a virtual format on Jan. 19 at 5 p.m.
Michael Barsanti will be the featured speaker at W&L’s virtual Founders Day/Omicron Delta Kappa Convocation on Jan. 19 at 5 p.m.
Oyumaa Daichinkhuu ’16 will complete a one-year master’s program at China’s Tsinghua University inspired by the Rhodes Scholarship program at the University of Oxford in England.
Victor Ricciardi, visiting professor of finance at Washington and Lee University, shared his financial expertise and insight in two recent interviews.
Sundie teaches marketing courses at W&L, including Marketing Management. 
Lucas Morel joined other panelists in explaining how William Shakespeare’s work relates to American constitutional values.
His one-year term as the organization's president will start November 2021.
Brian Alexander recently contributed to the Monticello blog, where he discussed Thomas Jefferson’s “Manual of Parliamentary Practice” and the impact it has on modern rules of the U.S. Congress.
   Politics professor Mark Rush published opinion pieces in the Jurist and The Virginian-Pilot in November.
Washington and Lee University is among the 51 inaugural member institutions* of the Liberal Arts Colleges Racial Equity Leadership Alliance, a new initiative from the University of Southern California's Race and Equity Center.
Mark Rush was interviewed on Brian Frydenborg's '04 “Real Context News” podcast.
Lena Hill, dean of the College and professor of English and Africana studies at Washington and Lee, has been appointed to be the university’s next provost, beginning July 1, 2021.
W&L Professor of Economics Hugo Blunch published an article with the IZA Institute of Labor Economics.
Hillel International’s civic engagement initiative challenged campuses across the country to get students engaged in the presidential election, and W&L Hillel led the way.
W&L will present “What Happened Last Night?” virtually on Nov. 4 at 6 p.m.
Ponce de León is an assistant professor of politics at Washington and Lee University.
This year, 222 people tuned in to watch and participate in the annual summit. 
W&L’s Contact Committee presents two separate evenings with former presidential candidates Jeb Bush and Andrew Yang as part of a virtual speaker series leading up to the presidential election.
Victor Ricciardi, visiting professor of finance at Washington and Lee University, recently appeared on “The Rational Reminder Podcast.”
Rush published op-eds in the Richmond Times-Dispatch and The Fulcrum in September.
Zhang teaches Statistics for Economics and Introduction to Economics, and she is interested in developing courses on the economics of climate change, migration and gender.
Anna Bosking, a first-year student at W&L, appeared on a BBC interview panel to discuss her perspective as a voter after last week's vice presidential debate.
Matt Bartini ’12 offers favorite scenes of W&L on his custom shirts.
The COVID-19 pandemic has failed to hinder Washington and Lee University professors, who have adapted creatively to teach both in person and virtually this term.
The Entrepreneurship Summit will take place online on Friday and Saturday, Oct. 2–3.
Blunch served as the lead consultant on a Ghana case study for the World Bank's new index
“Global Ethics in the 21st Century: Opportunities and Challenges,” a collaboration between the Mudd Center for Ethics and the Center for International Education, kicks off Sept. 24 with a keynote address by former U.S. ambassador and Sewanee University President Reuben E. Brigety.
Twenty-four new full-time professors have joined the faculty this year.
Professor Thakur-Wernz joined W&L in July 2020 as an assistant professor of strategy and international business. She has taught courses in strategic management, international business, and international management.
In a WalletHub piece, Hoover answers questions about the current state of the housing market.
Adam L. Schwartz, a long-time resident of Lexington, VA, passed away peacefully on August 22, 2020.
The Africana Studies Program at W&L, in partnership with the Rupert H. Johnson Jr. Program in Leadership and Integrity, will host a series of events focused on activism and Black life. It kicks off Aug. 26 with a panel discussion featuring three W&L faculty members.
As Executive Committee president for the 2020-21 school year, Chase Calhoun '21 hopes to protect the Honor System and make a positive impact in areas of racial inequality and systemic racism.
Franks, a professor of law at the University of Miami School of Law, will discuss the topic of her 2019 book, “The Cult of the Constitution: Our Deadly Devotion to Guns and Free Speech.”
Returning to campus in these circumstances will challenge us all, but teaching and learning together is what we do best, and it has never been more important.
The article, published in the Journal of Experimental Political Science, questions whether elected officials are more responsive to men than women inquiring about access to government services.
Cage Tevis ’21, Bo Garfinkel ’21, Jeremiah Kohl ’22, Collin Frazey ’23 and Tanajia Moye-Green ’23 will study abroad.
The commentary was published this week in The Roanoke Times.
In a recent op-ed, W&L Professor of Politics Lucas Morel argues that in agreeing to lead Washington College after the Civil War, Lee set an example of how to accept defeat and move on.
Fifteen W&L faculty members and two alumnae have signed on to help teach a Fall Term course that will cover multiple aspects of the COVID-19 crisis.
Jennifer Beam Dowd ’96 is co-managing a Facebook page, “Dear Pandemic,” to provide evidence-based advice about COVID-19 to a general audience.
In the magazine piece, politics professor Mark Rush outlines steps that could end partisan gerrymandering and rid Virginia of the “antiquated” winner-take-all electoral system.
Nick Watson '22 is spending the summer working on housing issues as part of his Shepherd internship with the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity in Vermont.
In his latest book, Morel explores how Lincoln’s most vital ideas are traced back to the country’s founders.
Ponce de Leon was interviewed for a story on "Peru's Rock Star Finance Minister."
In the discussion, Morel explains why Juneteenth is a uniquely American holiday.
Avalon Pernell, a rising sophomore from Alabama, appeared on a “College Roundtable” segment that featured college journalists interviewing the mayor of Pittsburgh.
Nickodem’s USTA position with Fulbright Austria starts in September 2020.
A group of his former students and colleagues established the James Tyler Dickovick Internship in International Affairs, Global Political Economy and the Public Interest Endowment in his memory.
Bridget Bartley '21 interviews Shiri Yadlin '12, director of Just Homes, a nonprofit that helps faith communities address homelessness in D.C.
Jennings will start on August 10 and will succeed Dennis Cross, who is stepping down at the end of the calendar year after serving 16 years as W&L’s V.P. of university advancement.
Keller has received a USTA position with Fulbright Austria starting in October 2020.
The class will return to campus for its traditional in-person Commencement ceremony next spring.
In-person Commencement exercises for the Class of 2020 are scheduled to take place next spring.
At W&L, Katherine Ingram '20 found a research interest—and a future profession—where environmental studies meets economics.
Spring Term courses aim to provide innovative, one-of-a-kind educational experiences to W&L students. Online instruction during COVID-19 led to many new opportunities.
Rivers has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Mexico starting January 2021.
Peccie’s award is part of ODK’s 2020 General Russell E. Dougherty National Leader of the Year Competition.
Kelly Evans '07 interviewed Dudley about his hopes and plans for students' return to campus in the fall.
Recipients of the John M. Gunn International Scholarship met with its namesake in February and shared how the program has made a difference in their lives.
Morel’s recent interview was included in “The 1619 Project Exposed: A Special Edition of the American Mind Podcast.”
The title of his op-ed is “Might This Be the Beginning of Education?”
Students enrolled in BUS 399 Entrepreneurship presented their plans to a panel of 16 alumni judges who have worked as entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, private equity experts, lawyers, and angel investors.
W&L’s admissions office is replacing in-person events canceled due to COVID-19 with personalized online outreach.
At W&L, Gareth Minson '20 has been able to forge his own educational path at the intersection of political philosophy, education policy and women, gender and sexuality studies.
In the “Unmarked” episode of the “Reel South” series, Rainville highlights her research into historic African American cemeteries.
Rush’s article is entitled “Saving the Voting Rights Act: Virginia as a case study for reform.”
During the COVID-19 pandemic, members of the Washington and Lee University community are finding ways to lend a hand with community relief efforts.
Internship and Study Semester in Asia-Pacific student Sam Smiley '21 reminisces about his stay in Singapore, which was cut short because of COVID-19.
Kipfer succeeds Scott Dittman, who will step down as registrar on June 30 after serving in the role for 35 years.
"The loss we felt at the suspension of campus life confirmed our love for this community. Our response was inspiring."
Gavin Fox answers questions about the value of grocery credit card programs.
Scott Dittman has been awarded honorary membership by the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers.
Amid the COVID-19 outbreak, Washington and Lee University’s CARPE and Academic Technologies offered expertise and resources to faculty preparing for online courses.
Linda Hooks, professor of economics and head of the W&L Economics Department, was interviewed by the News-Gazette.
Art Goldsmith was featured on the Morning Brew podcast “Business Casual”
The university has canceled all campus events featuring external speakers or visitors beginning at noon on Saturday, March 13 and continuing through Saturday, April 18.
Sascha L. Goluboff, professor and chair of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Washington and Lee University, has been named the university’s next director of community-based learning. W&L Provost Marc Conner announced the three-year appointment, which will begin on July 1.
This summer, Sezen will receive two months of intensive training with leading faculty at Michigan State University in microeconomics, math, econometrics and research methods.
Temi Adeyanju '21 describes her many adventures in Australia during her Internship and Study Semester in Asia-Pacific.
Annie Echols '21 explores some surprising similarities between Sydney and Lexington while in Australia for the Internship and Study Semester in Asia Pacific program.
Will Bolton '20 has made the most of his college years by serving as president of the Executive Committee, doing ROTC training at VMI, traveling to Germany and interning for a U.S. Senator.
The conference is titled Ethics and Technology: Surveillance, Civil Rights, and Cyber-Security.
Strong spoke on President Jimmy Carter’s pre-White House days and his complicated relations with the civil rights movement in Georgia.
The Rhodes Scholarship, which averages $70,000 per year and up to as much as $250,000, fully funds two to four years of study at the University of Oxford in England.
Vaughan holds a bachelor’s degree in biology from Harvard University, a master’s degree in library science from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and a doctorate from Arizona State University. She succeeds John Tombarge, who will step down on June 30 after serving in the role for seven years. 
Robinson ’94 joined the W&L Board of Trustees on Feb. 14.
Eight students and three faculty received Fulbright awards for 2019-2020.
As director of communications for Mock Con 2020, Annie Lentz '20 applies her love of mass communications and politics to promote and protect a 112-year-old legacy.
The title of Rush’s piece is “If the electors can be faithless, why have an Electoral College?”
Mock Con Political Chair John Harashinski '20 hopes to carry on the event's legacy of accurate predictions using lessons from courses in political analysis and leadership.
Foster Friedman '21 discusses the highlights of his experience with the Internship and Study Semester in Asia Pacific Program.
An all-student team has created a versatile app for Mock Con 2020, bringing ticketing, program information and image sharing onto attendees’ phones and eliminating thousands of pages of printed material.
As director of operations for Mock Con 2020, Kylie Piotte '21 puts her event-planning skills to the test and finds her fit at W&L.
The article highlights Latin American stories to look out for in 2020.
“When It Breaks,” oil paintings on canvas by Nick Alexander, is on display at the McCarthy Gallery in Holekamp Hall now through May 31, 2020.
Emma Ernst '20 attended the Student Conference on U.S. Affairs at West Point and challenged herself to explore unfamiliar aspects of policy.
W&L's Founders Day/ODK Convocation will take place on Jan. 21 at 5 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
Eleven teams, four from Professor Marc Junkunc’s sections and seven from Professor Jeff Shay’s sections, competed for cash prizes.
Whether he's on the football field or in the Mock Con war room, Kyle Perel '20 never forgets about the importance of teamwork and adaptable leadership.
Want to work for the U.S. Congress? Judging by past successes, earning a degree from Washington and Lee University is a pretty good start.
 In 2021, students will have the opportunity to study in Ghana for both Winter and Spring Terms.
Professor Bob Strong’s Fall Term course on presidential impeachment borrowed lessons from real events in Washington.
The paper will be published in a journal of the American Accounting Association.
The paper investigates the relation between accounting failure and innovation.
Marc Conner, provost and Jo M. and James M. Ballengee Professor of English at Washington and Lee University, has been named president of Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, New York. He will begin his new role on July 1, 2020.
Luke Basham '20 parlays a passion for politics into the challenging role of Democratic Party analyst for Mock Con 2020.
W&L hosted “The Economics of Foreign Aid” discussion colloquia in collaboration with the Institute for Human Studies (IHS) at George Mason University.
How Mock Con General Secretary Layne Smith '20 stays sane under the pressure of academics, Mock Con 2020 and acting as head hearing advisor for the W&L Honor System.
Lawch helped organize the University's fourth Real Estate Forum which took place in Arlington, VA.
Brian Alexander has been awarded a domestic fellowship at the International Center for Jefferson Studies (ICJS) at Monticello.
As general chair for Mock Con 2020, Jimmy Fleck '20 uses his political knowledge and business skills to lead a team of stand-out students toward a historic moment.
Gabriele, a 2019 graduate, is the university’s 17th Rhodes Scholar.
With the home stretch to Mock Con 2020 just around the corner, the political team watches an increasingly contentious primary race.
Her public talk is titled "Corporate Bankruptcy 101."
Morel’s piece is titled “America Wasn’t Founded on White Supremacy: A Rebuttal to the ‘1619 Project.’”
The title of Schatten’s article is “Prison: Where Undergrads and Inmates Take Classes Together.”
Eubanks' talk is titled "The Shakedown State: Digital Debt, Economic Inequality and Automation in Public Services."
Attendees will discover the technology, insights and trends shaping the future of data and analytics.
 Toplak is a constitutional scholar and election law expert at the University of Maribor, Slovenia.
Kahn has been invited to give the opening keynote speech at the Exposition of Sustainability of the Industrial Pole of Manaus.
These pitches won the Entrepreneurship Summit audience with cutting edge approaches and an ambitious outlook for expansion.
The title of Strong’s piece is “Impeachment and Democracy.”
The one-day conference on the role analysts play in today’s financial markets took place at Cass Business School in London on Sept. 13, 2019.
In the article, Lind discusses the unique education students receive at W&L.
Rigorous academics and a nationally ranked soccer program made W&L an ideal fit for Danny Tran '21.
Casey was appointed by Virginia Governor Ralph Northam.
 The article presents an analysis of the main political events of 2018 in Peru.
The conference provides undergraduate economics students with information on a range of career paths open to them after graduation.
The Conversation recently published an article written by Mark Rush titled “The Electoral College will never make everyone happy.”
 Papers included in the journal focus on a range of topics that speak to various disciplines.
Campbell's talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled "The Giants of Africa: What's Next for South Africa and Nigeria?"
Baker has covered four presidents for the New York Times and Washington Post: Donald Trump, Barack Obama, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton.
Bridget Washington '21 discusses her role as the Connolly Entrepreneurship Society's chair of marketing for the W&L's 8th Annual Entrepreneurship Summit (Sept. 27-28).
Scott Dittman, longtime university registrar at Washington and Lee, will step down from that post effective June 30, 2020. He will continue working at W&L as special consultant to the provost during a six-month transition period before retiring in December 2020.
The Law, Justice, and Society Program offers an interdisciplinary approach to legal studies that draws from faculty and resources in all three schools at Washington and Lee University.
In the article, Bassiouny answered common questions about foreign transactions and credit card fees. 
The episode aired on “The Great Books” podcast series.
The event, which is free and open to the public, is titled "The Future of the Amazon Rain Forest."
Bovay is one of approximately 200 board-certified tax lawyers in Florida. 
As a recipient of this award, Gilbert was recognized at the 2019 SIOP Annual Conference at the National Harbor in Fort Washington, Maryland, in April.
The focus will be the "1619 Project" and the U.S. Constitution.
The event, which is open to all students, provides multiple opportunities to network with alumni entrepreneurs from a variety of industries.
Jack Huffard '90 talks about the actionable insights he has gained from the Entrepreneurship Summit (Sept. 27-28) and the skills needed to be a successful entrepreneur.
In the discussion, Morel explains the history behind the Lincoln-Douglas debates.
n the podcast, Schatten and Dudley discuss organizational culture and values.
Strong’s talk is titled “George Washington and Education.”
The Cape Town Program, a partnership between the Williams School and the Shepherd Program, provides students with an interdisciplinary experience they'll never forget.
Bebe Goodrich '07 discusses her entrepreneurial journey and how it was shaped by W&L's Entrepreneurship Summit.
Davies was recently interviewed on ABC Radio Australia about his current research.
For students like Lourdes Arana '21, the London Internship Program combines course work, internships and alumni support to create an unforgettable educational experience.
The article is a part of his forthcoming book, “A Social Theory of Congress: Legislative Norms in the Twenty-First Century.”
The scholarship is named after Kenneth Ruscio ’76, Washington and Lee University president emeritus and ODK’s national president from 2002-06. 
Wenle Mu '20 describes a typical week of living in Australia as a student in the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program.
The article is titled “The Changing Shapes of Latin American Welfare States."
Dickovick, who taught at W&L for 14 years, made a lasting impact on communities around the world.
W&L courses in economics and biology used community-based learning to engage in partnerships and make an impact on food insecurity at a local level.
One of W&L's signature programs, the Washington Spring Term Program introduces students to Capitol Hill, up close and personal.
As a candidate on the Fulbright Specialist Roster, Rush is now eligible to be matched with projects designed by host institutions in over 150 countries globally.
Blunch will visit the Economics Department in the Business School of Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul.
Zander Kieu highlights his first three months in Sydney as part of the Sydney Study Abroad and Internship Program.
Special Topics in American Politics: Minority Rights and Gerrymandering challenged students to redraw the Virginia House and Senate districts to improve the election process.
In his Commencement address, President Dudley described the multitude of ways in which the Class of 2019's W&L education has prepared them for a lifetime of learning, leadership and service.
While at Washington and Lee, Lencioni has taken several German classes and studied abroad in Berlin.
W&L celebrates its 232nd undergraduate commencement Thursday, May 23. LIVESTREAM: 10 a.m.
Victoria Seymour '21 reflects on her time in Australia as part of the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program.
W&L’s Alpha Circle of ODK, the national leadership honor society, inducted seven new undergraduate members and five honorary initiates.
Krista Camp ’13 is on the front lines of one of America’s most contentious issues — immigration.
We asked professors to share course materials and discussion questions to offer a sneak peek at the breadth of opportunities available during the best term of the year. 
The new minor combines a liberal arts education with rigorous business training.
Our favorite term is well underway! Here is a glimpse inside some of the many fascinating courses being taught off-campus this year.
Hiromasa says her time at Washington and Lee and various volunteer opportunities she has participated in have prepared her for this next step in her educational journey.
Layne Setash '19 recently earned a Distinguished Teacher Award from the Virginia Association of Colleges of Teacher Education.
Xinxian Wang '21, a student at Washington and Lee University, has won a $10,000 Davis Projects for Peace grant.
Six student teams, selected from 11 semi-finalist teams, participated in the annual W&L Business Plan Competition finals on Saturday, April 6. The teams took home a total of $7,000 in cash prizes.
Gastañaga's lecture, which is free and open to the public, is titled "Racial Justice at the Ballot Box: Moving Beyond Restoration of Rights." 
Tsvetkova will be working at Robert Bosch GmbH a large multinational engineering and electronics company.
CBYX is a yearlong fellowship, funded by the German Bundestag and U.S. Congress through the U.S. Department of State. 
Washington and Lee University senior Kathryn McEvoy ’19 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain for summer 2019. 
Washington and Lee University senior Jackson Ellis ’19 has won a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany for summer 2019.
Agrippina has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain.
Through the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance program, W&L students used their knowledge to prepare taxes for local low-income and elderly residents.
Garrett Clinton '20 says attending W&L is "like being dropped into a pool of opportunities.'' 
Delegates representing the more than 300 circles of Omicron Delta Kappa (ODK) gathered in Charlotte, North Carolina, to review and vote upon a new governance structure.
The PPIA fellowship program helps students achieve a master’s or joint degree, typically in public policy, public administration, international affairs or a related field.
Minson is a politics major, with a minor in women’s gender and sexuality studies. 
Chad Ballard III ’06 cultivates a sustainable crop that also nurtures the Chesapeake  Bay ecosystem.
At W&L, a combination of incredible courses, extracurricular opportunities and a warm community made for an experience Will Shannon '19 calls "uniquely mine."
Jeff Schatten, assistant professor of business administration at Washington and Lee University, said he launched the podcast in part because of student input.
His statement was given at a public hearing at the EPA headquarters in Washington, D.C. on Mon., Mar. 18.
Claire Mackin '20 shares her experiences in Sydney as part of the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program.
Edwin Castellanos Campos '20 came up with the idea for the special edition after taking a Spring Term sociology/anthropology course about U.S. immigration and refugees.
Sykes will be working this summer with Ernst & Young in Frankfurt.
Washington Break at W&L is about exploration, whether that discovery involves Texas mountaintops, Japanese culture or career opportunities in New York.
Olubunmi is an entrepreneur and global advocate for migrants, refugees, and internally displaced people. Her talk, free and open to the public, is entitled “When Lions Write: Innovations in Advocacy.”
The panel, which will take place in Tampa on March 1, is titled “Functional Planning for the (sometimes dysfunctional) Family Business.”
Yeboah's talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Africa Economic Transformation: The Role of Youth.”
Will’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Lowering the Temperature, and the Stakes, of Politics.” 
W&L is included on the list of U.S. colleges and universities that produced the most 2018-2019 Fulbright U.S. Students.
Mark Rush's piece was published Feb. 13 in the Richmond Times-Dispatch.
As part of the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program, Mariam Samuel '20 is taking courses at the University of Sydney and interning at Wheatley Wealth Management.
Margaret Kallus ’19 will be the second W&L alumna to join a team of economists at the Harvard University research institute, Opportunity Insights.
Zainab Abiza '19 interviews Morten Wendelbo '12 about his research focusing on economic development, humanitarian aid and food security.
The students will provide basic preparation of state and federal income tax returns to qualified residents.
A market research project generated by W&L students is helping a Danish company to align its initiatives with the UN's Sustainable Development Goals.
In the Feb 5. op-ed, Strong examines Trump's "norm-shattering presidential behaviors."
Stephanie Lind ’92 is on a mission to change the way people think about and eat meat.
Short's lecture is part of the broader Washington Term Speaker Series, “From the Colonnade to the Capitol… and Back.”
The leadership organization also presented the James G. Leyburn Award to Srimayi B. “Tinni” Sen.
 In her speech, which is free and open to the public, Mourao will discuss the role news organizations play, not only in spinning news, but also in legitimizing topics and people.
Proceeds will support CKWL's Backpack Program, a hunger-fighting project that began in 2009.
Washington and Lee University’s Martin Davies, associate professor of economics, was appointed a member of the Fulbright Specialist Program for three years.
Bob Strong's piece was published on Dec. 9 in The Virginian-Pilot.
Abiza will receive a master’s degree in global affairs from Tsinghua University in China.
Ben Capouya '20 interviews Victoria Kumpuris Brown '98 about her career in food policy and health at the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
 Zainab Abiza ’19 studied at Princeton and spent time in Rabat, Morocco, with a Davis Projects for Peace grant. This semester, she's working to expand her Davis project.
The historic institutions will temporarily exchange iconic portraits of George Washington, which will go on public view in mid-December.
Whether he's working with the Williams Investment Society or playing jazz guitar, Joe Wen '19 makes the most of his W&L experience.
Dannick Kenon '19, who plans to attend law school and devote his career to positive social change, has co-founded a new student publication at W&L called The Vigil.
The event will focus on how data is shaping sports, entertainment, and healthcare.
The talk is free and open to the public and the discussion will also be streamed live.
Washington Term, study abroad opportunities and internships—including one with the Philadelphia Eagles—have helped to shape Jason Renner's plans for the future.
She will speak on the electoral shift that supported Donald Trump’s victory in 2016 and reflect upon the 2018 elections.
This year’s event focuses on Exploring Careers and Issues in Social Innovation and Responsible Leadership.
In their discussion, the duo will address "Transatlantic relations between Poland and the United States."
Alexander explains why we should expect to see more rule-breaking in Congress from now on.
Molly Mann '20 combined fitness and service learning during her Shepherd summer internship at Back on My Feet in Washington, D.C.
Payne joined the W&L Board of Trustees on October 5.
O’Neil’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled, “How Big Data Promotes Inequality and Threatens Democracy.” 
Of the W&L graduates who took the exam, 89.5% passed one or more sections on their very first attempt.
Professor Stuart Gray examines the Mahabharata with fresh eyes.
In the article Strong argues that "Now, more than ever, we need to take George Washington’s warnings to heart."
Balen Essak '20 interviews Maisie Osteen '14L about her experiences with the Shepherd Program and as an assistant public defender.
In his talk, which is free and open to the public, Mounk will discuss the rise of populism around the world.
Jesse Evans '20 spent his summer ensuring that this year's summit, which took place Sept. 21-22, would be a success. 
A philanthropic twist on AirBnB, W&L's Habitat Hotel raises thousands for much-needed affordable housing in Rockbridge.
Working in South Africa gave Will Hardage '20 a chance to combine his economics major and his poverty studies minor.
Caroline Schmidt '13 volunteered for the Red Cross during 2017's horrific hurricane season.
Anton's talk about constitutional self-government and the Trump presidency will be held in Northen Auditorium on Sept. 18 at 5 p.m. 
The Critical Language Scholarship Program has allowed Riley Ries '19 to strengthen his Russian and learn more about politics and culture in Kyrgyzstan.
Gonz Ferrero ’04 and Lenny Enkhbold ’17 blend their shared concern for the environment with a dash of business savvy to promote eco-friendly outdoor wear. 
The Darrold and Kay Cannan Associate Term Professor of Business Administration studies what she calls “the intersection of business and the natural environment.” She arrived at that spot after studying engineering, management, business — and philosophy.
Jackson Ellis '19 is working with a German consulting agency to help international student-athletes navigate the college application process.
W&L students Graham Novak '19 and Mourad Berrached '20 won a $15,000 prize at the 2018 Schulze Entrepreneurship Challenge. 
In the Roanoke Times piece, Strong investigates the meaning behind the term "tabloid presidency." 
Students in the Cape Town Summer Internship Program gain professional experience and a better understanding of South Africa’s culture.
In a Roanoke Times piece, Silwal discusses current events and the impact they bear on children.
Mark Rush, Waxberg Professor of Politics and Law at W&L, has recently discussed constitutional amendments, 3D-printed guns and electoral maps.
During a four-week internship with Enact Sustainable Strategies in Stockholm, Julia Carullo '20 has been inspired by Sweden's dedication to sustainability in business practices.
Danielle Spickard '19 is taking full advantage of what the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program has to offer.
Ali Greenberg ’13 has opened a flexible workspace and social club in Richmond that emphasizes community for women and gender minorities.
Strong is the William Lyne Wilson Professor in Political Economy at Washington and Lee.
The summit will take place Friday and Saturday, September 21-22, 2018. Alumni registration is now open.
Elizabeth Oliver will assume the role of associate dean beginning July 1.
Hoover discusses the advantages and disadvantages of a perfect credit score.
Diplomas have been handed out and caps have been tossed. In this video, members of the Class of 2018 discuss what they'll miss most about W&L.
W&L celebrates its 231st undergraduate commencement Thursday, May 25. LIVESTREAM: 10 a.m.
With the support of teammates, professors and friends, Nicholas George '18 was able to balance two majors and a spot on the basketball team.
Blunch recently attended the 7th annual meeting of Danish Academic Economists in North America (DAEiNA) at Princeton University. This year, he was able to fully enjoy the program as a participant, rather than as an organizer.
Elizabeth McDonald heads to Japan, Emily Austin to Indonesia and Riley Ries to Kyrgyzstan.
While studying in Sydney, Bradley Callaham '19 interns at LINK, the world’s largest international business brokerage firm.
Senior Stephanie Williams '18 says W&L's First-Generation Low-Income Partnership (FLIP) gave her support to overcome obstacles and mentor other low-income students.
Rush's piece was published in The Virginian-Pilot
Matthew Rickert '18 completed the daunting task of updating the "Outing Club Guidebook."
As she prepares to work for the Equality of Opportunity Project, Amanda Wahlers '18 is grateful for the education, opportunities and research experience she has had in Lexington.
DeVogt taught at W&L from 1962 to 2000.
Carson Bryant '18 has been awarded a Fulbright grant for an English Teaching Assistantship in Germany.
ODK inducted four honorary and seven student initiates
Edwin Castellanos '20 created a system that allows students to save money by borrowing donated textbooks.
Hannah Falchuk '18 hopes to improve her cultural understanding and language proficiency in the country.
A CFA credential gives students a distinct advantage on the job market.
Soon Ho spends his days in Australia studying at the University of Sydney and interning at Greencross Limited, Australia's largest pet care company.
She will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton followed by a service project in Morocco.
Students enrolled in Dr. Shay’s BUS 399 Entrepreneurship capstone course took home a total of $11,000 in cash prizes.
A group of five W&L students, along with Linda Hooks, Professor of Economics and Head of the Economics Department, recently attended the Annual Conference of Undergraduate Women in Economics at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Campaign.
As a first-year student at W&L, Jane Chiavelli '18 had no idea that she would face a huge challenge — and come out of it with strong leadership skills.
From Lexington to London, Faith E. Pinho '18 has had a vast array of experiences.
Joseph Guse, John C. Winfrey Associate Term Professor of Economics, will give a talk in honor of his professorship on Tues., April 3 at 5:00 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. 
Washington Break gave students a chance for learning and personal development, as well as all-out fun.
The event celebrated many individual and student accomplishments.
The Phi Beta Kappa chapter at W&L welcomed 41 members of the junior and senior classes and two graduates from the Class of 2017.
Timothy Diette, associate dean of the Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics and the Harry E. and Mary Jayne W. Redenbaugh Term Associate Professor of Economics at Washington and Lee University, has been named senior advisor to the president for strategic analysis, effective July 1.
Teresa Aires Rodrigues is spending her winter term in Sydney, Australia.
Peyton Powers '18 says studying poverty has helped him understand that "humans cannot be divorced from the dignity that is concomitant to life."
Her talk is titled "Does it Make Sense to Blame Corporations?" 
Hermione Wang '18 has spent so much time in Lenfest that people jokingly ask her if she lives there. Her job? Making sure that the show always goes on.
Strong's opinion piece was published by NBC News THINK.
The VP of global brand communications for adidas delivered the keynote address at a daylong advertising and marketing conference full of networking opportunities for students.
The title of Guelzo’s talk is “Did Robert E. Lee Commit Treason?”
His talk is titled “A Heartful Way of Living with Mindfulness, Compassion and Responsibility.” 
The program helps American students secure three-month long business internships in Germany.
Laura Gottschalk moved from Lexington to Arlington to intern at EY during the Winter Term.
Sloan Evans ’99 and Rhett McCraw ’07 credit their liberal arts education with helping them build a strong foundation for their careers.
Dr. Jeffrey Lacker, former CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, will give the H. Parker Willis Lecture in Political Economy.
Harleigh Bean ’18 studied in Paris, spent a summer at one of Middlebury's competitive language schools and attended the Public Policy and International Affairs Junior Summer Institute at Princeton University.
The three authors of “We Are Charleston” will talk on Feb. 15 at 6:00 p.m. in Stackhouse Theatre, Elrod Commons. It is free and open to the public.
Graham Novak '19 may only be a junior at W&L, but he has already lined up a job — at his own company. 
Washington and Lee University has selected the Advanced Research Cohort (ARC) program as its next Quality Enhancement Plan (QEP). President Will Dudley and Provost Marc Conner announced the selection at the undergraduate faculty meeting on Feb. 5.
Economics professor Peter Grajzl will give a talk titled "A Structural Topic Model of the Features and the Cultural Origins of Bacon's Ideas."
Parks is the eighth speaker in the 2017–18 Equality and Difference series, sponsored by the W&L's Mudd Center for Ethics.
Kirkland, who joined W&L in 1997, has practiced education law and employment law for 25 years.
Allen’s speech is titled: “Why Hide Anything?” She is the fifth speaker in the year-long Questioning Intimacy series.
The title of his talk is “Equality and the Fourth Amendment.”
The national leadership honor society will welcome four honorary and 35 student initiates.
Luce's talk, “Trump and the Crisis of Western Democracy,” is free and open the public.
Dew’s speech, titled "The Making, and Unmaking, of a Racist," will precede the ODK induction.
The daughter of the late Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. will give the keynote address during W&L's annual multi-day observance of King’s birthday.
Jordan Goldstein's Washington and Lee journey can be followed through her love of music, her adventures on the stage — and the length of her hair. 
Monica Musgrave '18 is already double-majoring, but that didn't stop her from spending six-weeks in England studying two completely different subjects.
Skyler T. Zunk ’19 was an intern at the White House's Office of Political Affairs.
Economics professor Art Goldmsith was recently interviewed by the American Economic Association.
Kathryn E. Young '19 got a Reynolds Business Scholarship that allowed her to intern at her hometown newspaper, the Richmond Times-Dispatch.
Q&A with Lindsey Michaels 18’, Co-Executive Director, Real Estate Society
Kate Donnelly ’11 is using her education and Shepherd experiences to improve her local community.
The William Jefferson Clinton Scholarship will allow Spiezio to attend the American University in Dubai during Winter Term 2018.
Community Grants Committee has made 19 grants totaling $30,760 to non-profit organizations in Lexington and Rockbridge County.
Lee Sommerfeldt '18 found a home away from home in a honky-tonk in the heart of Tokyo.
Beginning with the 2018 Spring Term, Washington and Lee will provide institutional grants to meet the full cost of Spring Term domestic and international travel programs for students with financial need.
An internship at Warner Music Group in Nashville allowed Mary-Michael Teel '18 to marry her two loves: music and communications.
Laura Stagno '18 saw the faces of America's future leaders, including her own, through an internship on Capitol Hill.
Caroline Blackmon interned this summer with The Dunwoody Crier in Georgia.
Julia Kaczmar '19 spent a summer in New York City, learning the logistics of the latest fashions.
Laura I. Gómez, founder and CEO of venture-backed startup Atipica, Inc., is the sixth speaker in the 2017-18 Equality and Difference series.
Written on the occasion of the passing of Lew John
Professors share the inspiration for their first-year seminars, and what they hope students will take away.
Mandy Witherspoon ’18 combined her love of art with her expertise in business at the Baltimore Museum of Art.
Caroline Rivers test drove her Spanish—and her courage in unfamiliar environments—during a summer teaching gig in Argentina.
Brian C. Murchison, the Charles S. Rowe Professor of Law at Washington and Lee University, will be the new Roger Mudd Professor of Ethics and director of the Mudd Center for Ethics, beginning July 1, 2018. He succeeds Angela Smith, who was named the Mudd Center’s inaugural director in 2013 and is returning to her full-time faculty role as professor of philosophy.
Hillberry's talk is titled “Trade Facilitation: The Nitty Gritty of Cross-Border Trade.”
As a summer counselor with the nonprofit Camp Fire Alaska, Chase Wonderlic '18 got in touch with his inner child and his adventurous spirit.
Over Reading Days, 19 students and five faculty and staff members traveled to Washington, DC to explore the theme: “What can you do with an econ major?”.  
Rogowski joined the W&L Board of Trustees on October 20.
This year’s event focuses on “Exploring Careers and Issues in Social Innovation and Responsible Leadership.”
DataCon, a new event for students, will highlight the impacts of data analytics, big data and statistical computing.
Anna Milewski '18 has spent time in fields, labs, carpenter shops and seminar rooms - and it was all part of one internship at the home of George Washington.
Strong's piece was published in The Richmond Times-Dispatch.
Jonathan Rauch of the Brookings Institution will give a lecture titled “Unpresidented: Governing in the Age of Chaos.”
“Dead Feather” is a collection of work by artist Joshua Garrett.
At W&L, Handelman taught popular courses in comparative politics, Chinese politics, Japanese politics, and U.S. foreign policy. 
John Bovay ’07, an assistant professor in the Department of Agricultural and Resource Economics at the University of Connecticut, focuses on the economics of food and agricultural policy
Lorena Hernandez Barcena '19 had an eye-opening summer internship with Harlem Children’s Zone, an education nonprofit in New York.
Both speakers have extensive experience as special investigators in high profile investigations involving both public and private sector work.
Money Matters Week, sponsored by the First-Generation Low-Income Partnership at W&L, runs Oct. 1-6.
Soon Ho Kwon '17 and Claire Meyers '18 spent the summer looking at how Corporate Social Responsibility plays a role in the bottom line.
This year, members of the accounting department and W&L accounting students attended conferences and workshops across the U.S. and Denmark.
The Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program (SISAP) is the only program at W&L that provides students with both a study abroad experience and up to two internship opportunities during the same semester.
Washington and Lee University inaugurated William C. Dudley as the university’s 27th president.
Washington and Lee University’s Williams School will hold its sixth annual Entrepreneurship Summit Sept. 29-30.
Fahrenthold’s talk, titled "Journalism in the Time of Trump,” is free and open to the public.
Zainab Abiza '19 spent the summer analyzing two Islamic State magazines in a timely project with Professor Seth Cantey.
Ramadan will speak on “Equality as a Social Requirement and a Human Ideal.”
W&L joins a diverse set of institutions united in a shared goal of educating 50,000 additional high-achieving, lower-income students nationwide.
W&L will host a panel discussion on “The Liberal Arts and the Professions” as part of President Dudley's inauguration.
The first lecturer will be Tariq Ramadan of Oxford University, whose talk is titled: “Equality as a Social Requirement and Human Ideal.”
Frances Coy spent her summer interning at the New York City District Attorney's office in the Forensic Accounting and Financial Investigation Bureau.
Martin Davies, Associate Professor of Economics at Washington and Lee University, gave the keynote address at the Certified Practising Accountants (CPA) Papua New Guinea Annual Conference in Lae, PNG on August 22. His talk was titled “Policy in Papua New Guinea: Recent Shocks, New Directions.”
Traveling to my first Entrepreneurship Summit at W&L, I looked forward to an agenda packed with information-loaded sessions on topics ranging from fundraising to scaling. I quickly realized that as helpful as the sessions were, an even greater learning opportunity came from hearing the experiences of the other entrepreneurs. 
Danielle Allen, James Bryant Conant University Professor at Harvard University and director of Harvard’s Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics, will address W&L's 2017 Fall Convocation.
Jeff Schatten explains the best places to flip houses in 2017.
Op-ed: What Dick Gregory taught me in a chance conversation
Inga Wells '16 is currently an analyst in the Financial Sponsors Group at Deutsche Bank.
After spending Spring Term in Ethiopia, Jack Kaelin '19 is in Austin, Texas, helping refugees find a place to call home. 
Julia Poppenberg '19 spent the summer as a translator in Guatemala, helping doctors and patients alike and learning to "talk strong."
Approval numbers rise and fall, but a few patterns persist, explains Strong.
W&L’s Grajzl Discusses “Courts and the Economy” in a recent podcast for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Alex Castelli is an audit partner at CohnReznick LLP, a national accounting, tax and advisory firm. He lead's the firm’s Emerging Industries Practice which includes technology, life sciences, renewable energy and health care in addition to serving as the engagement partner on several clients primarily in the technology and life sciences industries.
Jane Chiavelli '18 is captain of the Varsity Equestrian Team, president of Beta Alpha Psi, and president of Delta Society.
Jack Miller '19 has spent his summer in the bush of South Africa, learning about wildlife and conservation - and having a few close calls in the field.
Jason Renner ’19 interned this summer for two lobbying firms in Washington, D.C.
W&L's Mark Rush talks to USA Today about Russia sanctions.
This lecture is part of the Alumni College's summer program, "Camelot Reconsidered: The Presidency of John Fitzgerald Kennedy."
Joelle Simeu '20 is working this summer on "The Politics and Poetics of Space in the Works of Martin Luther King Jr. and Leopold Senghor," a project with Professor Mohamed Kamara.
An independent-study class at W&L allowed students to put together a short animated film from start to finish in only 12 weeks, but it turned out to be much more challenging than they expected.
Looking back on the last four months in Australia, I cannot believe how much I have been able to experience in just one semester. My time in Australia has differed a little from the rest of the group since my sister just moved to Sydney with her Aussie husband. My brother-in-law, Calvin, was eager to show me the “real Australian experience,” which I quickly learned consisted of exploring beautiful places and eating meat pies while rooting for his favorite Australian rules football team.
W&L recognized 20 retiring members of the University's faculty and staff this spring.
Andre Zeromski '20 has been selected from a group of finalists for the Class of 2020 of the prestigious Kemper Scholars Program.
The following opinion piece by politics professor Bob Strong appeared in Newsweek.
TeachingAmericanHistory.org interviewed Morel about teaching Colson Whitehead’s award-winning novel The Underground Railroad.
Rush's piece on legislative terms appeared in The Hill.
Helping the Charlotte Observer figure out what, where, when and how millennials consume news.
Graduating seniors at Washington and Lee University today were given a primer in existentialism along with four pieces of advice from President William C. Dudley.
The Roanoke Times profiled graduating senior Matt Carl in today's commencement story.
W&L's undergraduate mock trial team is now ranked 16th nationally.
Participating in Mock Trial required loads of time for Avery Field '17, but he wouldn't trade the experience and relationships for a whole case of trophies.
Stephen Mitchell '17 credits students, alumni, and W&L academics for helping him to find the right career path.
Steven Yeung '17 has been in classrooms from Lexington to Ghana to Shanghai and back — and now plans to run a classroom in Japan.
Zachary Taylor '17 and Austin Piatt '17 believe leadership, collaboration and responsibility are the keys to a successful conference.
Amirah S. Ndam Njoya ‘17 believes leadership, travelling, service, and scholarship are all vital parts of the W&L experience.
Washington and Lee University celebrates its 230th undergraduate commencement Thursday, May 25. LIVESTREAM: 10 a.m.
As I write this blog post, I have been outside our beloved United States for nearly five months, and what an exciting time it certainly has been...
JASC is a student-exchange program, initiated in 1934 by university students concerned by the breakdown of bilateral relations prior to World War II.
What can you do in four years at W&L? How about manage a radio show, start a service organization, found a club, or publish an EP? Austin Frank ’17 has done them all.
Dashiell Dericks ’18 and Jesse Evans ’20 are selling saplings grown from Colonnade oak trees in a new business that marries Dericks' love of silviculture and his fondness for W&L.
Classes, internships, and sightseeing take up the majority of my time here, but so far it’s been a semester to remember.
Alora Martin, who is participating in an intensive language program for Arabic in Amman, Jordan, sees studying abroad as a necessary part of a modern education.
Three student teams took home a total of $7,000 in W&L's annual Business Plan Competition.
James W. Ceaser, the Harry F. Byrd Professor of Politics at U.Va. and a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, will speak on “The First 100 Days: Reflections on the Trump Presidency.”
Tyler Grant ’12, a graduate of Washington and Lee University and the University of Virginia School of Law, is a regular editorial contributor to several national publications.
LaPointe, who says his personal motto is "being genuine goes a long way," is a world traveler, professional debater, and Johnson Scholar.
Now that we have lived in Sydney for over a month, I can tell you that there is no way to see it all. Although our small Washington and Lee group has made an effort to do as much as possible, we have barely scratched the surface of what Sydney has to offer. 
U.S. Sen. Mark Warner will speak on Thursday, April 13 from 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater.
To be eligible for Phi Eta Sigma, a student must be in the top 20 percent of the class at the end of his or her first term. 
The QEP is an exciting and important part of Washington and Lee University’s accreditation process by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.
Perhaps the neatest thing about Sydney is its seamless blending of a highly developed urban center and vast expanses of protected coastal land to hike and explore.
Whether they were doing service work in Birmingham, touring firms in NYC, or climbing an ice-encrusted mountain in New Hampshire, Washington and Lee students made the most of Washington Break.
Mike Smitka, Professor of Economics at W&L, talked to NPR's Marketplace about NAFTA and auto parts.
An opinion piece about the presidential selection process by W&L's Bill Connelly appeared in The Hill.
Tammi M. Hellwig has been named the director of Community-Based Learning at Washington and Lee University. W&L Provost Marc Conner announced the appointment, which is effective July 1.
Hear from Sandy Whann '86, president of Leidenheimer Baking Company in New Orleans and the Williams School Executive-in-Residence.
Karishma Patel '18 loves finding the intersections of technology and business - while studying abroad in Madrid.
The Phi Beta Kappa chapter at Washington and Lee University welcomed 49 members of the junior and senior classes and seven graduates from the Class of 2016 into the prestigious honor society at the Phi Beta Kappa/Society of the Cincinnati Convocation on Sunday, March 19.
Hannah Falchuk's passion for journalism has her reporting both in New York City and local Rockbridge.
Meet Yolanda Yang ‘18, who has traveled to China and back to discover the true purpose of cinematic censorship. Yang and study partner Savannah Kimble ’18 conducted research on this project in 2017 under the auspices of a grant from the Endeavor Foundation.
Sandy Whann, president of Leidenheimer Baking Company, will give a public talk on “Contemplating Relevance: Thoughts on Life and Business from a New Orleans Baker.”
Robert Reich, professor of political science at Stanford University, will give a lecture on “Repugnant to the Whole Idea of a Democratic Society?: On the Role of Philanthropic Foundations.”
New York Times bestselling author Jeff Shaara will speak on “A Storyteller’s View of the First World War.”
My adventures in Australia officially began after surviving twenty-two and half hours in the air, and arriving to the Gilligan’s Hostel in Cairns, Australia.
Bren Flanigan ’16 shares his economic skills and American culture as a Peace Corps volunteer.
Jeffrey Rosen, president and CEO of the National Constitution Center and professor of law at George Washington University will speak on “The Curse of Bigness: What Would Brandeis Say about Privacy in the Age of Google and Facebook.” 
The Phi Beta Kappa chapter at W&L will induct new members into the prestigious honor society at the Phi Beta Kappa/Society of the Cincinnati Convocation on Sunday, March 19.
Marlon West, head of effects animation at Walt Disney Animation Studios, will give the keynote address for the 2017 SSA conference, to be held March 16 and 17.
Meet Ashley Faulkner ‘18, a University Ambassador with a passion for showing others why she loves W&L
Sahar Akhtar, assistant professor in the department of philosophy at U.Va., will speak on "Why Religious and Racial Immigration Bans are Wrong."
Washington and Lee University is one of the newest members of the Liberal Arts Consortium for Online Learning.
Although I always imagined myself studying abroad in Europe, after a Spring Term in Copenhagen my sophomore year, I was ready to explore a completely different area of the world.
Logan Bartlett '10 makes the Forbes 30 Under 30 list for venture capitalism.
W&L will host a Public Interest Law Careers Panel on Feb. 28 at 7:15 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater.
Registration is now open through the W&L website for students and alumni to reserve a spot for the sixth annual AdLib Conference Mar. 2-3. 
On Wednesday, Feb. 15 at 6 p.m. Jonathan Holloway’s recent ODK Lecture on “The Price of Recognition: Race and the Making of the Modern University” will be shown in Stackhouse Theater, followed by a panel discussion.
Diane Whitmore Schanzenbach, associate professor of education and social policy at Northwestern University and director of The Hamilton Project, will speak on “The Causes and Consequences of Food Insecurity.”
Filiz Garip, professor of sociology at Cornell University, will speak about her book “On the Move: Changing Mechanisms of Mexico-U.S. Migration.”
Washington and Lee University has named Marc C. Conner as provost. Conner, the Jo M. and James M. Ballengee Professor of English, has been serving as W&L’s interim provost since January 2016.
All students are invited to stop by the Fellowships and Opportunities Fair on Monday, February 13, from 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. on the main floor of Leyburn Library to get information on fellowships and a wide variety of other opportunities.
Five seniors, Robert Conley, Mike DeLuca, Kaitlin Krouskos, Daniel Weld and Catherine Zhu, have received scholarships to study for level one of the exam to become a Chartered Financial Analyst® (CFA).
A multi-disciplinary Community-Based Research project gave Washington and Lee University students a chance to help local organizations take a closer look at access to affordable healthy food.
Lucas Morel, professor of politics at Washington and Lee, recently participated in a scholarly exchange with UCLA professor Melvin L. Rogers, on Starting Points, an online journal of the Kinder Institute on Constitutional Democracy at the University of Missouri.
Professors Marc Conner and Lucas Morel will present the John Chavis Lecture in African-American Studies, titled "The New Territory: Ralph Ellison and the 21st Century."
His award honors his outstanding professional achievement and personal commitment to community engagement.
Meet Harry Lustig ‘17, a scholar-explorer who’s hiked everywhere from the Blue Ridge to Alaska.
While everyone else is screaming at their computers trying to weave through the web advisor woes and figure out how many times they are going to have to walk back to third-year housing that day, I have had the opportunity to do something that not many W&L students get to do right in the middle of junior year: explore a new, unfamiliar city and have an invaluable internship experience.
Professor Tim Diette testified before the Canadian House of Commons’ Standing Committee on Human Resources, Skills and Social Development and the Status of Persons with Disabilities.
Sandra Reiter, associate professor of business administration at Washington and Lee University, will give a talk on Feb. 15 as part of W&L’s Roger Mudd Center for Ethics Markets and Morals series.
Students were motivated to travel to the presidential inauguration in D.C. to observe democracy in action.
Meet Carley Sambrook, a senior who has the know-how to explore her dream thanks to the Fashion Career Trip to New York.
Alpha Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, the national leadership honor society, will welcome four honorary and 39 student initiates at Washington and Lee University’s annual Founders Day/ODK Convocation on Jan. 19 at 5 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
Meet Graham Novak '19, an aspiring - and already accomplished - entrepreneur
Diane Nash, peace activist and pioneer of the Civil Rights Movement, will be the featured keynote speaker during Washington and Lee University’s annual multi-day observance of King’s birthday, "Celebrating the Life and Legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr."
Jonathan Holloway, historian of post-emancipation American history and black intellectualism and dean of Yale College, will be the featured speaker at Washington and Lee University’s Founders Day/Omicron Delta Kappa Convocation.
Raquel Alexander, associate dean and Ehrlick Kilner Haight Sr. Term Professor of Accounting at Washington and Lee University's Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics, has been named the first Kenneth W. Freeman Professor and Dean of the College of Management at Bucknell University. She will begin her new role on July 1.
Kara Karcher '11 is parlaying her studies in poverty and women's and gender studies into a law career dedicated to helping women and children.
Witt Hawkins ’18, a global politics major and mass communications minor from Memphis, Tennessee, received a William Jefferson Clinton Scholarship to attend the American University in Dubai.
"It's been exciting to serve in this role and see others get interested in the advertising field, as well as having the opportunity to spend time and plan with several fabulous members of the Williams School staff."
The 2017 AdLib Conference is scheduled to take place March 2-3.
"The conference is a great way to meet and network with alumni, and a leadership role with AdLib allows more opportunity to speak with and gain valuable advice from alumni in my interested field."
"When you’re involved with a large-scale project like AdLib that’s sponsored by the school, you come to learn that your work is a reflection of W&L as a whole."
Ken Ruscio was presented with the VMI Superintendent’s Meritorious Achievement Award in recognition of extraordinary service and dedication to the Institute an individual who is not a VMI employee.
As superintendent of Cumberland Gap National Historical Park, Sula Jacobs ’00 enthusiastically promotes the virtues of the National Park Service, which turned 100 years old this year.
Alecia Swasy's new book tackles the impact of social media on journalism.
Bob Strong's reflection on Somalia's 1992 Thanksgiving appeared in Newsweek on November 23.
Mark Rush's "A Thanksgiving Prayer" was published in The Roanoke Times on Thanksgiving day.
Children’s author, educator and social activist will discuss “Education, Poverty and Social Justice in an Age of Persistent Inequality.”
Washington and Lee faculty participated in a panel discussion on Thursday, Nov. 17, discussing the 2016 election from a variety of perspectives.
The following opinion piece by Mark Rush, Waxberg Professor of Politics and Law and director of international education at Washington and Lee, appeared in the Richmond Times-Dispatch on November 6, 2016.
John Donaldson ’92, who returns to campus next week as executive-in-residence at the Williams School, is helping to map the future of the music industry at Pandora Internet Radio.
Seth Cantey, assistant professor of politics at W&L, talks about Iraq's historical significance in a story for BBC Travel
Andrew Elliott ’07 used networking with W&L alumni and professors to pursue a career in real estate management and strategy.
What do college students think about the very unusual 2016 presidential election? Read on to find out.
“Streaming Wars and the Future of Music” will be the topic of John Donaldson’s address when he speaks at W&L Nov. 15.
The following opinion piece by Bob Strong, William Lyne Wilson Professor of Politics at Washington and Lee, appeared in the Richmond Times-Dispatch on October 29, 2016.
Stephen Lind talks about Charlie Brown and The Great Pumpkin on The Academic Minute.
The Center for International Education at Washington and Lee University will present a panel discussion on “Brexit and the Crisis of Democracy in Europe” on Nov. 3 at 6 p.m. in the Stackhouse Theater in Elrod Commons at W&L. The discussion is free and open to the public.
Peter Wittig, German Ambassador to the U.S., will speak on “German Policy Toward the European Refugee Crisis” at W&L's Institute for Honor Symposium.
Steven Yeung, who turned 21 in June, was one of the youngest members of the Virginia delegation — and one of the youngest delegates nationwide — at the Democratic National Convention in July.
Jeffrey P. Shay, Rupert A. Johnson, Jr. Professor of Entrepreneurship and Leadership at Washington and Lee University, has been named a fellow of the North American Case Research Association (NACRA).
Bonner Scholar Peyton Powers helps to plan the Fall Bonner Congress Meeting, taking place on W&L's campus Oct. 14-16.
American students traveled abroad with international students for summer projects they created together. .
Bebe Goodrich '07 doesn't own a drip coffee maker, but she has built a fast-growing business cold brewing coffee in the tradition of her native New Orleans.
Dr. Gregory Kulacki, the China project manager and senior analyst in the Global Security Program of the Union of Concerned Scientists, will lecture at Washington and Lee on Oct. 10 at 5 p.m. in Elrod Commons 345. The title of the talk, which is free and open to the public, is “The Risk of Nuclear War between the United States and China.”
Denis “Pepe” Estrada Hamm and Jason Renner, both sophomores at Washington and Lee University, spent Sept. 13-15 at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s Public Policy Conference in Washington, D.C.
Sophomores Pepe Estrada and Jason Renner participate in public policy discussions at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s Public Policy Conference in Washington, D.C.
Shepherd Intern Hannah Falchuk '18 works for the Bowery Residents' Committee in New York City.
Steve Bragaw, visiting professor of politics at Washington and Lee, was interviewed on VA Talk Radio's "Mari and Brian in the Morning" about what to expect from the first presidential debate between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.
Seth Cantey, assistant professor of politics at Washington and Lee, was interviewed on VA Talk Radio's "The Weekend Show With Pattie Martin" on the 2016 presidential election.
The Departments of Journalism and Mass Communications and Politics at Washington and Lee University will host a mayoral debate on Oct. 11 at 7:30 p.m. in the Millhiser Moot Court Room of Lewis Hall, W&L’s Law School. Doors will open at 6:30 p.m.
Peter Singer, the Ira W. DeCamp Professor of Bioethics at Princeton University and a Laureate Professor at the Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics at the University of Melbourne, is the keynote speaker for the 2016–17 Markets and Morals series, sponsored by the Roger Mudd Center for Ethics at W&L
The following opinion piece by Bob Strong, William Lyne Wilson Professor of Politics at Washington and Lee, appeared in The Roanoke Times on September 23, 2016, and is reprinted here by permission.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Prakhar Naithani '17 conducts research at North Carolina State University's Forestry Biomaterials Department.
Business administration and philosophy major Gordon McAlister '17 interns on the tech team at Sands Capital Management in Washington, D.C.
Co-directors of W&L Student Consulting keep their teams organized to deliver for the client.
Timothy Diette, Redenbaugh Associate Professor of Economics at Washington and Lee University, weighs in on the debate over free college in WalletHub.
Members of Washington and Lee's Executive Committee, College Republicans and College Democrats placed American flags on the walkway between Lee Chapel and Washington Hall this weekend in remembrance of those who lost their lives in New York, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C. 15 years ago.
Lessons learned from W&L and the Marine Corps helped John Warren ’03 create Lima One Capital to make positive impact on neighborhoods.
Hit Show Inspires Spring Term Course on the Politics of Race and Gender.
The Constitution Day lecture at Washington and Lee University, featuring Dr. William B. Allen, emeritus professor of political philosophy at Michigan State University, will be Sept. 16 at 4:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
Myrna Barrera-Torres '15 in Vina del Mar, Chile, and Rome, Italy.
"Good and bad things will happen when you take risks and leave what's comfortable, but I promise it's worth it."
"W&L has allowed me to satisfy my need to wander."
"Being abroad for so long really changed my perspective on many aspects of W&L, and made me appreciate it so much more."
.
"The one thing that will set you apart and help define you is how you cope with the challenges you face, learn from them and move on."
Economics professor returns to childhood home of Papua New Guinea to study the economics of resource-rich developing countries.
Recipients of W&L's Certificate of International Immersion reflect on their experiences abroad.
Connor Chess '17 spends a summer studying, working and teaching in Costa Rica, thanks to a Wooley Fellowship.
Emma Busse is a sociology and economics major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Charleston, W.Va. A member of the Class of 2015, she spent a summer in Camden, N.J., as a Shepherd Intern with the Cooper's Ferry Partnership, development firm that uses a multi-faceted approach to make Camden a better place to live, work, and invest.
"The relationships I have made and strengthened while volunteering over the course of my time in Lexington are more important to me than I could have imagined."
Politics and Spanish major Noelle Rutland '17 interns for the Department of Defense.
Cynthia Cheatham '07 finds purpose in a variety of settings as she advocates for underrepresented communities.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Kayla Sylvester '17 Volunteers with a Local Literacy Council in South Dakota.
David Robinson is an accounting and business administration major from Greenville, S.C. A member of the Class of 2015, he is chairman of the Student Judicial Council, a resident advisor for first-year students, a local elementary school volunteer and a member of @wluLex, W&L's student-run social media team.
Austin Eisenhofer is a business administration major and captain of the varsity football team. A lifelong racing fan, he spent the summer working for Penske Racing, Inc. as an athletics and team management intern.
Lucy Wade Shapiro is an American history major from Memphis, TN. A member of the Class of 2015, she is president of the student-run Executive Committee, a peer counselor, a volunteer at the Rockbridge Area Health Center and a member of Tri Beta, WITS and Reformed University Fellowship.
New business law professor hopes to teach students to be better negotiators.
Director of International Education .
Patrick O'Connor is a business administration major with a minor in education policy from Richmond, Va. A member of the Class of 2015, he is a member of the varsity basketball team, a first-year resident advisor and a Burish intern.
"I've learned a diverse set of capabilities that has aided my transformation from a curious girl with a knack for business into a cognizant, concerned businesswoman aware of the challenges of this complex world."
"I have been challenged to step outside my comfort zone, encouraged to pursue my passions, and nurtured as a student, a leader and an individual."
"We often do not realize the opportunities afforded to us as students at this prestigious university tucked away in such a beautiful town."
Accounting and Business Administration major lends her planning skills to the annual Souper Bowl benefit for the Campus Kitchen Backpack Program.
Rising senior Steven Yeung was one of the youngest members of the Virginia delegation — and one of the youngest delegates nationwide — at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia.
Mike Wilner '13 is on the fast track as a young entrepreneur.
Haley Miller '16, a lifelong lover of sports, works as a marketing intern for Adidas.
Advertising Operations and Ad Research Intern at Hulu.
Modern Professional Presentations is Not Your Average Public Speaking Class.
Haley Miller '16, a lifelong lover of sports, works as a marketing intern for Adidas.
Experiential marketing puts Gabrey Means '92 and her clients in unexpected places.
Intern at Grow Marketing in San Francisco.
Brandt Wood '88 sweats the details to create one-of-a-kind venues and live music events.
Elizabeth Robertson '01 takes childhood fascination with space to a career creating parts for rocket engines.
An excerpt from "Mock Con," a documentary funded by W&L's Class of 1953 and narrated by author and former CBS newsman Roger Mudd '50, on the drama and inspiration of the first 25 Mock Conventions at Washington and Lee University.
In the past three years, six graduating seniors have been named Venture for America fellows, and together they’re proving that W&L graduates don’t have to go to Silicon Valley to launch the next big business idea.
Amber Cooper '12 brings her passion for creativity and communications to her marketing career.
Through teaching and practice, Cliff Holekamp '96 is reinventing St. Louis with entrepreneurship.
"It is the strength of community and society that really makes W&L more than simply another great university."
"A liberal arts education hones transferable skills."
Business administration and art history major Colton Klein '15 interns at Sotheby's headquarters in New York City.
"I will always remember my time at Washington and Lee because it has helped me to grow and realize my interests."
"College is a time to both explore uncharted territory and to further your interests."
"Washington and Lee has been the happy intersection of the qualities I desired in a large and small school."
Johnson Opportunity Grant winner connects interests in economics and art history at famed auction house.
Johnson Opportunity Grant winner dives into local politics in Nashville.
Accounting and Religion major Andrea Owen '16 interns for Ernst & Young.
Business Administration and Romance Languages Major Carley Sambrook '17 Interns for Michael Kors.
Senior Xiaoxiang Yang gets a taste of the consulting world with The Brattle Group.
Business Administration Professor Presents Research at Comic-Con.
"The university has instilled in me a curiosity that expands beyond the classroom."
The Long Road to Facebook.
Katie Baird '10 connects with students interested in consulting careers.
Politics Professor Bob Strong reflects on the educational experience of Mock Convention.
A Spring Term course helps students grasp the separation of powers in the U.S. Constitution.
"For me, W&L is limitless. This is a community that supports, and even encourages, its members to identify and pursue multiple passions."
Business administration and art history major Sarah Williamson '18 interns in the finance department at the Guggenheim.
Art history and business administration major Sarah Wagner interns in the public relations department of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.
Johnson Opportunity Grant winner gets a taste of state politics the Tennessee State Capitol.
"This university can open many doors for its students, most of them unexpected."
"Both my academic and extracurricular involvement have fostered an interest in entrepreneurship, which has led me to work for a startup through Venture for America next year."
Kate LeMasters is a politics and economics major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Abilene, Texas. She studied global health and development policy in Geneva, Switzerland and Rabat, Morocco, with SIT Study Abroad.
The 2016 Washington and Lee University Entrepreneurship Summit, hosted by the J. Lawrence Connolly Center for Entrepreneurship at W&L, will take place Sept 23–24. The keynote speakers are Ben Sutton, co-founder and chairman emeritus of IMG College and Erika Hagberg, the head of Food and Beverage at Google.
Ambassador Theodore Kattouf, the first speaker of Washington and Lee’s 2016-18 Center for International Educational Colloquium on “Borders and Their Human Impact,” will give a lecture on Sept. 14 at 5:15 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
The return of students in the fall elicits mixed emotions. We feel the absence of those who have moved on even as we welcome the fresh and eager, first-year (FY) students.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete The Williams School archive.