Holly Pickett’s book explores the stories of several serial converts in early modern England.
‘White before whiteness in the late Middle Ages’ will launch via Zoom on Jan. 25 from 5-6:30 p.m.
Benefiel’s talk “Uncovering the mysteries of Pompeii” will be held on Nov. 10.
McMaster has been awarded a Fulbright research grant to Italy to complete a hybrid art history and computer science project.
Lauren Hoaglund '22 has parlayed her passion for medieval and Renaissance history, literature, classics and theater into a busy but rewarding four years at W&L.
Kathryn Muensterman ’22 has won a $34,000 Beinecke Scholarship to help fund her graduate studies.
Melissa Yorio '21 has received support from many corners during her college career, so when the pandemic broke out, she found a way to give back within her hometown community. 
Christopher McCrackin ’20 has won a $34,000 Beinecke Scholarship to help fund his graduate studies. 
The partnership will bring the company’s national tour and on-site workshops to W&L’s campus.
Rouhi’s talk is titled “A Radical Reassessment of Accepted Wisdom on Miguel de Cervantes' Fiction on Islam.”
The best place to research your thesis? Some would say the library, but for Jacqueline Moruzzi '18 that place is the Cambridge University's Medieval Studies Summer Program.
Professor George Bent and his team of students are working on a digital recreation of Florence that Bent describes as the “project of his career.”
Vishnuvajjala’s talk is titled “Arthurian Authority: Face-to-Face With the King.”
Lara Farina, an associate professor of English at West Virginia University, will give a lecture at Washington and Lee University on Oct. 27 at 12:15–1:15 p.m. in Hillel House Multipurpose Room 101.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Sonia Brozak '17 Travels to Florence to Study Art History.
Sonia Brozak '17 studies Leonardo da Vinci's Annunciation.
"Day Out: A Story of a Mother's Love:" On stage at the Symposium of Theater in Academe on March 27.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Medieval and Renaissance Studies archive.