Ford Scott '25 enjoys the intersection of technology and the humanities and has furthered his interests through independent study and internships. 
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join conversations with W&L's expert faculty about their teaching, research and passion projects.
Brinker makes her mark on Florence, Italy’s digital history.
George Bent, David Pfaff and Mackenzie Brooks teamed up to profile the 3D reconstruction of historic sites in Florence, Italy.
W&L Library and Institutional History staff joined Mellon-funded initiative On These Grounds with several partner universities to catalog events in enslaved people’s lives.
Campbell has won a Gilman Scholarship to do an internship in Barcelona, Spain.
The Washington and Lee University library is working to preserve documents relating to COVID-19 and diversity and inclusion discussions.
MaKayla Lorick '19 is collecting oral histories from African-American alumni, faculty and staff as part of a project that aims to include those missing perspectives in Washington and Lee University's history of desegregation and integration.
 Women in Technology workshops introduced Ruopeng Zhang '21 and Caroline Blackmon '19 to basic web development in a collaborative and fun environment. They urge other students to take advantage of the next round of workshops.
The event will focus on how data is shaping sports, entertainment, and healthcare.
Tombarge’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Championing the Lead Casket: Library Leadership in the 21st Century.”
In response to student demand, Washington and Lee University has added three new interdisciplinary minors to enrich its curriculum.
More than 500 ancient graffiti are now available online through the project website.
Professor George Bent and his team of students are working on a digital recreation of Florence that Bent describes as the “project of his career.”
Mary Catherine Greenleaf '19 collected and archived artifacts revolving around the Prohibition-era murder of Franklin Crosby Bearse.
The grant will support digitization of Pompeian epigraphy as part of the Ancient Graffiti Project.
Ben Schaeffer '18 is working with German professor Paul Youngman on a project involving references to the railway in German literature.
In his new book, Professor George Bent explores the cultural messages of Italian paintings from the Proto-Renaissance period.
Dr. Edward L. Ayers, the Tucker-Boatwright Professor of the Humanities and president emeritus at the University of Richmond, will give a lecture at Washington and Lee University on Sept. 22 at 7 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Digital Culture and Information archive.