The former executive director of ArtPower at the University of California, San Diego will begin his new role in July.
The premiere event will be followed by a student-led discussion about their experiences and the creative journey in producing the films.
The first From Screen to Square event will take place on Monday, Nov. 7.
Leah Jackson ’22 always knew she wanted to pursue the health field. Thanks to summer internships and dedication, she heads off to Harvard this fall to follow her passion.  
Tickets for the 2022 season can be purchased online using a credit card or in-person at the Lenfest Center box office beginning Nov. 30.
Ramonah Gibson '20 has received a Fulbright United Kingdom (U.K.) Partnership Award to complete her master's degree in creative writing scriptwriting at the University of East Anglia.
"Intimate Violence," a documentary about domestic violence by W&L professor Stephanie Sandberg and junior Nolan Zunk, has been recognized by three film festivals.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company performance will stream for free online on March 25 and 26 at 7 p.m., March 27 at 6 p.m. and March 28 at 2 p.m.
Bioh's hit comedy "School Girls; Or, The African Mean Girls Play" will be screened online March 16, and a virtual talk by Bioh will occur March 18.
The screening will be free and open to the public to view online. A discussion with the film’s creators will follow the screening.
The performance will run Oct. 15-18, and it is free and open to the public to watch via livestream.
Professor Stephanie Sandberg and Nolan Zunk ’22 co-directed “Intimate Violence,” which will be screened at Hull’s Drive-in to raise money for Project Horizon.
Writer Branden Jacobs-Jenkins, who based this play on the anonymous 15th-century "Everyman," presents a new take on an old story and the old question of what happens when we cross over to the other side.
“Considering Matthew Shepard” tells the now infamous true story and aftermath of the kidnapping, torture and murder of Matthew Shepard near Laramie, Wyoming, in 1998. Tickets are required for the performance.
 In 2021, students will have the opportunity to study in Ghana for both Winter and Spring Terms.
Snyder is a journalist known for her works on the topic of domestic violence.
The team won the Mentor Award at the Adrenaline Film Project.
Finch will give a public talk on March 20 at 4:30 p.m. on the main floor of Leyburn Library on the W&L campus. 
The performance will take place on Jan. 24 at 7:30 p.m. in the Keller Theatre on the Washington and Lee University campus.
Washington Term, study abroad opportunities and internships—including one with the Philadelphia Eagles—have helped to shape Jason Renner's plans for the future.
Take a peek behind the Lenfest curtain for 2018-19.
Shapley Davis '18 produced and premiered his own short film, and he hopes to continue making films as he heads off to USC's film school after graduation.
Majo Bustamante '18 was a marketing and communications intern for NASA Automotriz, the company that owns the rights to sell Ford and Volkswagen in San Jose, Costa Rica.
Students play a key role in creating the visual styling for upcoming productions by the theater department. 
The show will run Thursday, Oct. 26 through Sunday, Oct. 29.
Dana Gary, whose first EP is recorded, produced and publicized by a student-run record label, will present songs at SSA.
Matthew Reichel '17 didn't expect to be cast as Edward in Washington and Lee's production of "Sense and Sensibility," but now he is embracing the part.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Film archive.