Frederick will serve as co-presenter for a session that demonstrates the beneficial uses of technology in the curriculum mapping process.
The two-day event will be held on campus Sept. 29-30.
Professor Jay Margalus co-authored pieces featured in bioRxiv and for the International Symposium on Academic Makerspaces. 
Godsey has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Taiwan.
New members will serve a six-year term supporting Dean Rob Straughan and the school’s faculty members.
Professors Emily Landry and Jim Casey both spoke at the workshop held in Havana.
Shrestha worked with the Office of Career and Professional Development at W&L to "engineer" the perfect career after graduation. 
The Williams School congratulates the Class of 2022 graduates who received awards and honors for academic excellence during their time at W&L.
W&L's 10th Annual Entrepreneurship Summit will feature a keynote address by Ted Elliott ’94, chief executive officer of Copado. 
The spring event is scheduled for Friday and Saturday, April 29-30 on campus.
Seay's business, GOES, involves using specialized greenhouses as a form of carbon capture technology.
Coco Ellis Howe ’16 and Tani Greenspan ’16 created a successful online art gallery in the middle of a pandemic.
The faculty and staff of the Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics congratulate our 2021 graduates who have received awards and honors for academic excellence during their time at W&L.
W&L seniors Will Gentry and Gray Carlton started Lexington Harvest Haul to deliver local food to consumers. They’re now looking to sell the successful business before they leave Lexington after graduation.
Matt Bartini ’12 offers favorite scenes of W&L on his custom shirts.
The Entrepreneurship Summit will take place online on Friday and Saturday, Oct. 2–3.
Students enrolled in BUS 399 Entrepreneurship presented their plans to a panel of 16 alumni judges who have worked as entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, private equity experts, lawyers, and angel investors.
An all-student team has created a versatile app for Mock Con 2020, bringing ticketing, program information and image sharing onto attendees’ phones and eliminating thousands of pages of printed material.
Eleven teams, four from Professor Marc Junkunc’s sections and seven from Professor Jeff Shay’s sections, competed for cash prizes.
These pitches won the Entrepreneurship Summit audience with cutting edge approaches and an ambitious outlook for expansion.
Bridget Washington '21 discusses her role as the Connolly Entrepreneurship Society's chair of marketing for the W&L's 8th Annual Entrepreneurship Summit (Sept. 27-28).
The event, which is open to all students, provides multiple opportunities to network with alumni entrepreneurs from a variety of industries.
Jack Huffard '90 talks about the actionable insights he has gained from the Entrepreneurship Summit (Sept. 27-28) and the skills needed to be a successful entrepreneur.
Bebe Goodrich '07 discusses her entrepreneurial journey and how it was shaped by W&L's Entrepreneurship Summit.
The new minor combines a liberal arts education with rigorous business training.
Six student teams, selected from 11 semi-finalist teams, participated in the annual W&L Business Plan Competition finals on Saturday, April 6. The teams took home a total of $7,000 in cash prizes.
Gonz Ferrero ’04 and Lenny Enkhbold ’17 blend their shared concern for the environment with a dash of business savvy to promote eco-friendly outdoor wear. 
Elizabeth Oliver will assume the role of associate dean beginning July 1.
Students enrolled in Dr. Shay’s BUS 399 Entrepreneurship capstone course took home a total of $11,000 in cash prizes.
The VP of global brand communications for adidas delivered the keynote address at a daylong advertising and marketing conference full of networking opportunities for students.
Washington and Lee University’s Williams School will hold its sixth annual Entrepreneurship Summit Sept. 29-30.
Traveling to my first Entrepreneurship Summit at W&L, I looked forward to an agenda packed with information-loaded sessions on topics ranging from fundraising to scaling. I quickly realized that as helpful as the sessions were, an even greater learning opportunity came from hearing the experiences of the other entrepreneurs. 
Helping the Charlotte Observer figure out what, where, when and how millennials consume news.
Dashiell Dericks ’18 and Jesse Evans ’20 are selling saplings grown from Colonnade oak trees in a new business that marries Dericks' love of silviculture and his fondness for W&L.
Three student teams took home a total of $7,000 in W&L's annual Business Plan Competition.
Whether they were doing service work in Birmingham, touring firms in NYC, or climbing an ice-encrusted mountain in New Hampshire, Washington and Lee students made the most of Washington Break.
Meet Graham Novak '19, an aspiring - and already accomplished - entrepreneur
Andrew Elliott ’07 used networking with W&L alumni and professors to pursue a career in real estate management and strategy.
“Streaming Wars and the Future of Music” will be the topic of John Donaldson’s address when he speaks at W&L Nov. 15.
Jeffrey P. Shay, Rupert A. Johnson, Jr. Professor of Entrepreneurship and Leadership at Washington and Lee University, has been named a fellow of the North American Case Research Association (NACRA).
Bebe Goodrich '07 doesn't own a drip coffee maker, but she has built a fast-growing business cold brewing coffee in the tradition of her native New Orleans.
Haley Miller '16, a lifelong lover of sports, works as a marketing intern for Adidas.
Intern at Grow Marketing in San Francisco.
In the past three years, six graduating seniors have been named Venture for America fellows, and together they’re proving that W&L graduates don’t have to go to Silicon Valley to launch the next big business idea.
The 2016 Washington and Lee University Entrepreneurship Summit, hosted by the J. Lawrence Connolly Center for Entrepreneurship at W&L, will take place Sept 23–24. The keynote speakers are Ben Sutton, co-founder and chairman emeritus of IMG College and Erika Hagberg, the head of Food and Beverage at Google.
The return of students in the fall elicits mixed emotions. We feel the absence of those who have moved on even as we welcome the fresh and eager, first-year (FY) students.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Entrepreneurship archive.