Starting in July, Bishop will participate in a year-long cultural immersion program in Germany.
The Critical Language Scholarship Program funds a summer of overseas language and cultural immersion.
“Myth, Magic, and Madness” will feature a dynamic lineup of creative workshops, dramatic readings and staged productions March 21-22.
Ford Scott '25 enjoys the intersection of technology and the humanities and has furthered his interests through independent study and internships. 
Yurechko ’24 is the university’s first Marshall Scholar.
Tsang’s talk will be held on Dec. 1 at 5 p.m.
W&L’s Summer Research Scholars program gives students hands-on experience in collaborative research with faculty mentors.
Katie Yurechko ’24 presented research related to content creators circumventing TikTok’s content moderation algorithms.
Katie Yurechko ’24 presented on how algorithm awareness impacts algospeak use on TikTok.
Lakpa Sherpa ’25 and Ignas Volcokas ’25 designed a personal learning assistant that utilizes the power of artificial intelligence.
First-year Johnson Scholar to offer preliminary research on foot-limb dominance and neuromuscular asymmetry in pediatric soccer players.
The upcoming screening is the second installment in the DeLaney Center's ongoing film series.
In this Spring Term course, Washington and Lee students are making data science look like a walk in the park.
The English Teaching Assistantship provides Cones a stipend to teach English to students in Bulgaria and lead cultural exchange activities.
McMaster has been awarded a Fulbright research grant to Italy to complete a hybrid art history and computer science project.
Taha Khan, assistant professor of computer science at W&L, offers insights and advice about cyber security in the latest episode of "W&L After Class: The Lifelong Learning Podcast."
John Adekola ’24 sees his role with Phonathon as a chance to make a difference at W&L.
Professor Cody Watson's paper analyzes the use of deep learning in software engineering research.
Estrada Hamm recently received a David L. Boren Scholarship from the National Security Education Program to study abroad in Jordan.
On April 3 at 8 p.m., Fuller will showcase her insight and creativity in a series of original compositions performed by W&L student performers.
Cody Watson, an assistant professor of computer science, has published a paper in the International Conference on Software Engineering.
Taha Khan joined W&L's Computer Science Department this year as an assistant professor.
Professor Matthews received an outstanding paper award at the 13th International Conference on Game and Entertainment Technologies.
A $27,600 grant from Associated Colleges of the South will allow for the development of phase two of ChemTutor, a tutorial system for students new to college-level chemistry.
An all-student team has created a versatile app for Mock Con 2020, bringing ticketing, program information and image sharing onto attendees’ phones and eliminating thousands of pages of printed material.
Laurie Jones '21 is grateful for the opportunities she's had at W&L, especially her place on the golf team and the chance to study through the Peace and Conflict Program in Ireland and Jordan.
Arkin is a roboticist and roboethicist.
George Barker '20 used both of his majors⁠, computer science and chemistry, to help build a website that makes a challenging subject more approachable for students.
Jin will be working for Dürr System AG in Bietigheim Bissingen in Baden Württemberg, Germany, a small town near Stuttgart.
The scholarship will cover his remaining undergraduate tuition, a stipend, summer internships and then a job upon graduation.
Barabas’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Dodging Silver Bullets: Understanding the Role of Technology in Social Change.”
 Women in Technology workshops introduced Ruopeng Zhang '21 and Caroline Blackmon '19 to basic web development in a collaborative and fun environment. They urge other students to take advantage of the next round of workshops.
Deepthi Thumuluri '20 won a Virginia Academy of Sciences grant to continue her research into the relationship between diet-induced obesity, exercise and the gut microbiome.
Whether he's working with the Williams Investment Society or playing jazz guitar, Joe Wen '19 makes the most of his W&L experience.
Mark Donohue '19 spent the summer working as a software engineering intern at a company called AGCO, located in southern Bavaria.
Truth Iyiewuare '18 looks back at his growth as a member—and then president—of the Student Association for Black Unity at W&L.  
At this small-town university, Nora Devlin '19 has been exposed to viewpoints from all over the globe.
The program helps American students secure three-month long business internships in Germany.
Graham Novak '19 may only be a junior at W&L, but he has already lined up a job — at his own company. 
Lex McGriff '18 has grown into a leader in W&L's Student Association for Black Unity. As she prepares for graduation, she hopes more underclassmen will become leaders like her.
Sima Sharma ’18 used her time at W&L to explore her passion for the world and its various cultures through volunteering and study abroad.
Swimmer, computer coder, and Speaking Tradition advocate Will McMurtry '18 chose W&L over nine other schools, in large part because of its community.
The grant will support digitization of Pompeian epigraphy as part of the Ancient Graffiti Project.
Twelve Class of 2021 students visited W&L for a five-week Advanced Research Cohort program that allowed them to dabble in STEM projects and establish quality relationships.
Andre Zeromski '20 has been selected from a group of finalists for the Class of 2020 of the prestigious Kemper Scholars Program.
Cory Walker ’15, who graduated from James Madison University with her master’s in computer science and digital forensics, works in cyber security with the government.
Karishma Patel '18 loves finding the intersections of technology and business - while studying abroad in Madrid.
Meet Lenny Enkhbold '17, a computer scientist with a passion for the outdoors, who isn't afraid to have a good laugh.
Meet Graham Novak '19, an aspiring - and already accomplished - entrepreneur
“Streaming Wars and the Future of Music” will be the topic of John Donaldson’s address when he speaks at W&L Nov. 15.
Dan Claroni spent the summer working on unmanned aerial vehicles used to monitor gas emissions in Iceland.
Denis “Pepe” Estrada Hamm and Jason Renner, both sophomores at Washington and Lee University, spent Sept. 13-15 at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s Public Policy Conference in Washington, D.C.
Sophomores Pepe Estrada and Jason Renner participate in public policy discussions at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s Public Policy Conference in Washington, D.C.
12 exceptional students experience a unique summer program aimed at increasing retention in STEM majors.
Engineering major Walker Brand '18 gets a taste of the defense industry at Hardwire Armor Systems.
Physics-engineering and computer science major Aswasan Joshi '17 interns in product development at Jobscience in San Francisco.
University College, London.
Computer Science major Rajwol Joshi discusses his experiences at W&L.
Juniors Lizzy Stanton and Lenny Enkhbold use geo-spatial visualizations to explore new interpretations of 19th-century German literature.
"College is a place where you will grow no matter how you go through it. The only thing you control is who you grow to be."
"I am where I am because of W&L."
Jamie Hayes '17, Alfred Rwagaju '18 and Rajwol Joshi '18 are applying electrical engineering to create a medical solution for affordable diagnoses.
Azmain Amin '17 and Mina Shnoudah '17 look to automate testing of web services.
Geology major Dan Claroni '17 interns for the Icelandic Meteorological Office in Reykjavík.
Computer science and mathematics major Jamie White interns as a software developer at Amazon.com.
"Learning how to code is more like an exercise in design, engineering and detective work than an exercise in learning a foreign language."
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Computer Science archive.