Jessica Pachuca ’25 and Gabe Miller ’25 will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Carnegie Mellon University this summer.
De Zoysa is the university’s first recipient of the two-year scholarship for juniors interested in a public service career.
Sharon Mendieta Ramirez ’23 has designed her W&L experience to prepare her for her career as an educator.
Professor Eric Moffa and Jake Winston ’24 penned the article which appeared in The Social Studies Journal.
Hawley has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Spain.
The scholarship provides young scholars with an immersive experience in Asia through which they can learn to "be comfortable being uncomfortable." 
Eric Moffa holds several state and national leadership positions in the field of education.
Galvez has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to France, where he will teach English to secondary school students and serve as a cultural ambassador for the United States.
David Gálvez's favorite places on campus are the Global Discovery Laboratories and a special study corner in the library.
It's the most wonderful term of the year, so keep an eye on @wlunews social media and this post for a daily dose of W&L's deeply engaging four-week term.
Clay Chadwick ’22, Demmanuel Gonzalez ’21, Caleb Peña ’21, Carolina Rubio Regalado ’22 and Pamela Steimel ’22 were recognized in March by the Virginia Teachers of Promise Institute.
On March 26, Gonzalez will perform selections by composers Domenico Scarlatti, Gabriel Fauré, Manuel de Falla and others.
At W&L, Gareth Minson '20 has been able to forge his own educational path at the intersection of political philosophy, education policy and women, gender and sexuality studies.
Mock Con Political Chair John Harashinski '20 hopes to carry on the event's legacy of accurate predictions using lessons from courses in political analysis and leadership.
Emma Ernst '20 attended the Student Conference on U.S. Affairs at West Point and challenged herself to explore unfamiliar aspects of policy.
Through coursework and connections, Hannah Archer '20 helped to create a school food service program to ensure that local children have enough to eat during the summer. 
Sigler was nominated her for the award by a current student.
Fon Teawdatwan '19 has led three service trips to Charleston, West Virginia, for Volunteer Venture, a service-learning, pre-orientation program for incoming students.
The PPIA fellowship program helps students achieve a master’s or joint degree, typically in public policy, public administration, international affairs or a related field.
Whether she's leading the Student Association for Black Unity, acting in a play or volunteering in the community as a Bonner Scholar, Sasha Edwards '20 is ever mindful that education can happen anywhere.
As a first-year student at W&L, Jane Chiavelli '18 had no idea that she would face a huge challenge — and come out of it with strong leadership skills.
Peyton Powers '18 says studying poverty has helped him understand that "humans cannot be divorced from the dignity that is concomitant to life."
Danielle Hughson's honors thesis will be focused on male editorial control and how it affects female writers, within a familial and patriarchal context.
Lorena Hernandez Barcena '19 had an eye-opening summer internship with Harlem Children’s Zone, an education nonprofit in New York.
Bonner Scholar Peyton Powers helps to plan the Fall Bonner Congress Meeting, taking place on W&L's campus Oct. 14-16.
Patrick O'Connor is a business administration major with a minor in education policy from Richmond, Va. A member of the Class of 2015, he is a member of the varsity basketball team, a first-year resident advisor and a Burish intern.
Johnson Opportunity Grant winner tries her hand at brand marketing in Charleston, S.C.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Education Studies archive.