Scott’s passion for the environment carries over from the classroom to opportunities on campus and beyond.
These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university.
Leading Campus Kitchen, a student-run organization focused on addressing food insecurity, has been a rewarding experience.
The Critical Language Scholarship Program funds a summer of overseas language and cultural immersion.
Frederick will serve as co-presenter for a session that demonstrates the beneficial uses of technology in the curriculum mapping process.
Morel’s talk “Lincoln, the 1860 Election & The Future of Slavery in America” will be held March 12 in Northen Auditorium.
Smith’s W&L experience includes finding a family in his lacrosse teammates and helping other students discover their career paths as a career fellow. 
Laura Murambadoro ’26 brings varied interests, a collaborative leadership style and a passion for community engagement to W&L’s campus.
The March 7 talk in University Chapel was made possible by a $5,000 grant from the Virginia Society of the Cincinnati.
The W&L professor of politics will present on this year’s Nobel Peace Prize winner, Narges Mohammadi, on March 8 in Leyburn 128.
The Chilean activist’s talk will be held Feb. 12 at 5 p.m.
A global politics and economics double major, Dantini found his ‘home’ on campus with the University Singers.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Five-Star Distinguished Alumni Award winners
Politics professor Clyde Wang offers perspective on government intervention to combat declining birth rates in China.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
The 28th Mock Convention’s Presidential Gala on Nov. 12 offered the campus a glimpse of the upcoming excitement for the 2024 mock presidential convention.
Mathen’s talk “Dilemmas of Democracy” will be held Nov. 13.
Kaplan’s talk “Between Empire and Anarchy from the Mediterranean to China” will be held Nov. 8.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Young Alumni Award winners
Andrew Tartakovsky ’23 received a Fulbright grant to teach English in Azerbaijan.
Denny Garvis and Zoila Ponce de León presented a two-day online workshop on applying adaptive and interactive learning practices in undergraduate statistics courses.
Caroline Wise ’23 is working as a backcountry guide for St. Elias Alpine Guides in Alaska.
Ellie Penner ’23 received a Boren Scholarship to study Hindi in India.
The 2023 Spring Term course "Threats to Democracy" examined the form of government and explored the current challenges it faces.
Zoila Ponce de León’s chapter is titled “Health Care and the Public-Private Mix in Mexico, Chile, and Peru” and appears in the Latin American section of the publication.
Rojas has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Mexico.
The Honorable J. Michael Luttig ’76 will visit campus May 8-9 to reflect on his career and discuss his views on recent challenges to democracy and the rule of law.
As well as operating her own farm, Professor Harris teaches American politics, public policy and food policy.
Tartakovsky has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Azerbaijan, his parents’ homeland.
Dixon has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Taiwan.
Dylan Santella ’25 presented “Gender and The Face: Expanding Upon the Butlerian Model of Ethics” at the undergraduate conference held March 31 at Swarthmore College.
Mott will pursue a master’s degree in digital media and society at Cardiff University.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Alumni Award winners
Mock Convention made its Spring Kickoff event an informative preview of upcoming convention conversations.
Nancy Reinhart '00 is a midwife and health care practitioner who empowers women and families during their pregnancy.
Philip Jefferson’s talk in Stackhouse Theater on March 27 is free and open to the public.
The fourth edition of “Comparative Politics” is a collaboration between faculty in W&L’s Department of Politics and Department of Sociology and Anthropology.
The W&L community event will be held on Tuesday, March 21, at 6 p.m. in W&L’s University Chapel.
Bernbaum is inspired by W&L’s emphasis on community-based learning.
Mock Convention is gathering steam as the organization prepares for its Spring Kickoff event on March 21.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Five-Star Distinguished Alumni Awards winners
W&L’s distinctive summer programming helped Burks-Parra develop her personal and professional interests.
New members will serve a six-year term supporting Dean Rob Straughan and the school’s faculty members.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate student recipients.
Professor Lynn Uzzell shared her expertise on the disputed document known as the Pinckney Plan.
Lozinskaya, a 2022 graduate, will receive a master’s degree in global affairs from Tsinghua University in China.
W&L Law graduate met with professor Brian Alexander’s Congress and the Legislative Process class to discuss Thomas Jefferson’s Manual of Parliamentary Practice.
The panel will discuss "What Happened Last Night?” on Nov. 9 at 6 p.m. in Newcomb Hall.
Seth Cantey is an associate professor of politics and a core faculty member for the Middle East and South Asian Studies program.
Kim Stanley Robinson, an award-winning author, will give a public lecture on Nov. 10 at 6:15 p.m. in the University Chapel.
Ahmad Ohmid Arman ’23 arrived on campus as a Gunn Scholar in 2021 and is making the most of his long-awaited W&L experience.
Zoila Ponce de León recognized by the Journal for Latin American Studies.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Young Alumni Award winners
Professor Ayse Zarakol will give a public lecture on Nov. 14 at 5:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.
Zoila Ponce de León will utilize the grant to study immigration and deportation in the U.S. and Brazil. 
A passionate conservationist, Niquole Esters ’04 has crafted complex approaches encompassing multiple countries to improve ocean health and benefit local communities.
Brendan Smith ’24 worked in the British House of Commons as a parliamentary research intern in London.
Hosted during Parents and Family Weekend, the Sept. 30 event will kick off the 28th Mock Convention.
This fall, Jin Ni ’22 will pursue her master’s degree in human rights at University College London in the United Kingdom.  
Lily Mott '23 is interning this summer at News Over Audio in Dublin, Ireland, where she is finding fulfillment at the intersection of politics and journalism.
Caroline Wise '23 is spending her second summer working as an alpine guide in Alaska.
Sharman will put his degrees to use in a position on Capitol Hill.
The Williams School congratulates the Class of 2022 graduates who received awards and honors for academic excellence during their time at W&L.
Mosher has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Kazakhstan. He will also spend this summer receiving intensive Russian language training in Tbilisi, Georgia.
Johnston was recently awarded a fellowship to the Center for Arabic Study Abroad at the American University in Cairo.
Carley will serve as an English language teaching assistant in a school in the former Soviet republic.
Meet Taylor Garcia, a politics major and Law, Justice, and Society minor who plays varsity tennis at W&L.
Wilkerson received an All-American Attorney Award from the American Mock Trial Association.
Lane Johansen was inspired by an unforgettable summer in Ukraine.
Hughes' public lecture, titled "Ethical Considerations for the Application of Machine Learning at Scale" will be delivered on May 2 at 4 p.m.
Tripathi will teach English to students in Colombia for 10 months.
Lee has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Costa Rica starting in early 2023.
Research by Alexander and Williams on Thomas Jefferson’s “Manual and the Modern Rules of the U.S. Congress” is featured in the spring 2022 edition of Fine Books & Collections magazine.
Johansen plans to head to Eastern Europe after graduation to serve Ukrainian refugees.
Members of the Washington and Lee University community are responding to last month’s incursion by offering educational opportunities and raising funds for relief efforts.
Lynn Uzzell is a visiting assistant professor of politics at Washington and Lee University.
The spring event is scheduled for Friday and Saturday, April 29-30 on campus.
Professor of Politics Rebecca Harris recently published "Party Food: A Partisan History of Food & Farming in America."
Nick Mosher '22 always finds support at W&L, whether he's writing a thesis on Russian politics, starting an online human rights newspaper or helping the football team win ODACs.
Packer offers fresh insights into how Americans can use an underlying passion for equality to lead us toward a more unified, progressive nation.
Among different research findings, this study shows that there are still enormous barriers to healthcare access in Peru.
 Ponce de León's peer-reviewed journal article focuses on the impact of political parties on healthcare reform in Peru.
Caleb Miller joined the Washington and Lee University Politics Department as a visiting assistant professor in fall 2021.
The panel’s reenactment is titled “Reliving the Constitutional Convention."
The America’s Town Hall program will explore how to understand the legacy of the American Revolution and the founders in the 21st century.
Katana Evans '22 used summer enhancement funds to intern with Rep. Julia Brownley's office and Recovery Organization Resources.
Professor Mark Rush published an opinion piece in The Hill titled, "Partisan bias in the Constitution? Check the data."
In a shifting media landscape, Ted Williams ’07 and Mike Allen ’86 are focused on reigniting local journalism through a new business venture.
Politics Professor Lucas Morel was interviewed for the “We the People” podcast.
Mark Rush’s recent article titled “Is Virginia Now a Beacon of Electoral Reform? Yes, but…” appeared in the Spring 2021 publication.
Foxen’s USTA position with Fulbright Austria starts in October 2021.
Zoila Ponce de León was featured in the Pontifical Catholic University of Peru Research Center's series "Public Policies and Debates."
The faculty and staff of the Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics congratulate our 2021 graduates who have received awards and honors for academic excellence during their time at W&L.
Johnston has won a Gilman Scholarship to study abroad with Middlebury Abroad at Mohammed V University in Rabat, Morocco.
Estrada Hamm recently received a David L. Boren Scholarship from the National Security Education Program to study abroad in Jordan.
“A Social Theory of Congress: Legislative Norms in the Twenty-First Century” is the newest book on the topic of the U.S. Congress in more than 15 years.
The article is titled “Lava Jato deepened political chaos in Peru and splashes the 18 presidential candidates.”
Brian Alexander will also moderate a panel discussion, "Congressional Norms in an Era of Conflict," via Zoom on April 8, at 12 p.m.
Bob Strong will also participate in a panel discussion about the film and the Carter presidency on April 13 at 7 p.m.
Politics professor Lucas Morel recently published an article in Persuasion titled “Speaking the Truth.”
Lynn Uzzell, who teaches in the Politics Department, recently published an article in RealClearPublicAffairs titled "Madison's Five Lessons for Overcoming Polarization."
Twelve students at W&L are creating their own version of the U.S. Constitution in Professor Lynn Uzzell’s politics course.
Professor Strong’s op-ed is titled “Donald Trump and the Stress Test of American Democracy.”
Despite COVID-19, Jared Nickodem '20 was able to make it to Austria, where he is teaching English to students as part of the U.S. Teaching Assistant Program.
Strong co-authored an article in The Conversation titled “America’s newest voters look back at the 2020 election – and forward to politics in 2021.”
The series will present two events, "Looking at Blackness" and "Legislative Leverage: Democratic Processes as Activism,” in late January.
Lucas Morel joined other panelists in explaining how William Shakespeare’s work relates to American constitutional values.
Brian Alexander recently contributed to the Monticello blog, where he discussed Thomas Jefferson’s “Manual of Parliamentary Practice” and the impact it has on modern rules of the U.S. Congress.
   Politics professor Mark Rush published opinion pieces in the Jurist and The Virginian-Pilot in November.
Mark Rush was interviewed on Brian Frydenborg's '04 “Real Context News” podcast.
Hillel International’s civic engagement initiative challenged campuses across the country to get students engaged in the presidential election, and W&L Hillel led the way.
W&L will present “What Happened Last Night?” virtually on Nov. 4 at 6 p.m.
Ponce de León is an assistant professor of politics at Washington and Lee University.
W&L’s Contact Committee presents two separate evenings with former presidential candidates Jeb Bush and Andrew Yang as part of a virtual speaker series leading up to the presidential election.
Rush published op-eds in the Richmond Times-Dispatch and The Fulcrum in September.
Anna Bosking, a first-year student at W&L, appeared on a BBC interview panel to discuss her perspective as a voter after last week's vice presidential debate.
The Entrepreneurship Summit will take place online on Friday and Saturday, Oct. 2–3.
As Executive Committee president for the 2020-21 school year, Chase Calhoun '21 hopes to protect the Honor System and make a positive impact in areas of racial inequality and systemic racism.
The article, published in the Journal of Experimental Political Science, questions whether elected officials are more responsive to men than women inquiring about access to government services.
The commentary was published this week in The Roanoke Times.
In a recent op-ed, W&L Professor of Politics Lucas Morel argues that in agreeing to lead Washington College after the Civil War, Lee set an example of how to accept defeat and move on.
Fifteen W&L faculty members and two alumnae have signed on to help teach a Fall Term course that will cover multiple aspects of the COVID-19 crisis.
Jennifer Beam Dowd ’96 is co-managing a Facebook page, “Dear Pandemic,” to provide evidence-based advice about COVID-19 to a general audience.
In the magazine piece, politics professor Mark Rush outlines steps that could end partisan gerrymandering and rid Virginia of the “antiquated” winner-take-all electoral system.
In his latest book, Morel explores how Lincoln’s most vital ideas are traced back to the country’s founders.
Ponce de Leon was interviewed for a story on "Peru's Rock Star Finance Minister."
In the discussion, Morel explains why Juneteenth is a uniquely American holiday.
Avalon Pernell, a rising sophomore from Alabama, appeared on a “College Roundtable” segment that featured college journalists interviewing the mayor of Pittsburgh.
Nickodem’s USTA position with Fulbright Austria starts in September 2020.
A group of his former students and colleagues established the James Tyler Dickovick Internship in International Affairs, Global Political Economy and the Public Interest Endowment in his memory.
Bridget Bartley '21 interviews Shiri Yadlin '12, director of Just Homes, a nonprofit that helps faith communities address homelessness in D.C.
Rivers has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Mexico starting January 2021.
Morel’s recent interview was included in “The 1619 Project Exposed: A Special Edition of the American Mind Podcast.”
At W&L, Gareth Minson '20 has been able to forge his own educational path at the intersection of political philosophy, education policy and women, gender and sexuality studies.
Rush’s article is entitled “Saving the Voting Rights Act: Virginia as a case study for reform.”
Will Bolton '20 has made the most of his college years by serving as president of the Executive Committee, doing ROTC training at VMI, traveling to Germany and interning for a U.S. Senator.
The conference is titled Ethics and Technology: Surveillance, Civil Rights, and Cyber-Security.
Strong spoke on President Jimmy Carter’s pre-White House days and his complicated relations with the civil rights movement in Georgia.
The Rhodes Scholarship, which averages $70,000 per year and up to as much as $250,000, fully funds two to four years of study at the University of Oxford in England.
As director of communications for Mock Con 2020, Annie Lentz '20 applies her love of mass communications and politics to promote and protect a 112-year-old legacy.
The title of Rush’s piece is “If the electors can be faithless, why have an Electoral College?”
Mock Con Political Chair John Harashinski '20 hopes to carry on the event's legacy of accurate predictions using lessons from courses in political analysis and leadership.
Foster Friedman '21 discusses the highlights of his experience with the Internship and Study Semester in Asia Pacific Program.
An all-student team has created a versatile app for Mock Con 2020, bringing ticketing, program information and image sharing onto attendees’ phones and eliminating thousands of pages of printed material.
As director of operations for Mock Con 2020, Kylie Piotte '21 puts her event-planning skills to the test and finds her fit at W&L.
The article highlights Latin American stories to look out for in 2020.
Emma Ernst '20 attended the Student Conference on U.S. Affairs at West Point and challenged herself to explore unfamiliar aspects of policy.
Whether he's on the football field or in the Mock Con war room, Kyle Perel '20 never forgets about the importance of teamwork and adaptable leadership.
Want to work for the U.S. Congress? Judging by past successes, earning a degree from Washington and Lee University is a pretty good start.
Professor Bob Strong’s Fall Term course on presidential impeachment borrowed lessons from real events in Washington.
Luke Basham '20 parlays a passion for politics into the challenging role of Democratic Party analyst for Mock Con 2020.
How Mock Con General Secretary Layne Smith '20 stays sane under the pressure of academics, Mock Con 2020 and acting as head hearing advisor for the W&L Honor System.
Brian Alexander has been awarded a domestic fellowship at the International Center for Jefferson Studies (ICJS) at Monticello.
As general chair for Mock Con 2020, Jimmy Fleck '20 uses his political knowledge and business skills to lead a team of stand-out students toward a historic moment.
Gabriele, a 2019 graduate, is the university’s 17th Rhodes Scholar.
With the home stretch to Mock Con 2020 just around the corner, the political team watches an increasingly contentious primary race.
Morel’s piece is titled “America Wasn’t Founded on White Supremacy: A Rebuttal to the ‘1619 Project.’”
Eubanks' talk is titled "The Shakedown State: Digital Debt, Economic Inequality and Automation in Public Services."
The title of Strong’s piece is “Impeachment and Democracy.”
 The article presents an analysis of the main political events of 2018 in Peru.
The Conversation recently published an article written by Mark Rush titled “The Electoral College will never make everyone happy.”
Baker has covered four presidents for the New York Times and Washington Post: Donald Trump, Barack Obama, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton.
The episode aired on “The Great Books” podcast series.
The focus will be the "1619 Project" and the U.S. Constitution.
In the discussion, Morel explains the history behind the Lincoln-Douglas debates.
Strong’s talk is titled “George Washington and Education.”
The Cape Town Program, a partnership between the Williams School and the Shepherd Program, provides students with an interdisciplinary experience they'll never forget.
Bebe Goodrich '07 discusses her entrepreneurial journey and how it was shaped by W&L's Entrepreneurship Summit.
For students like Lourdes Arana '21, the London Internship Program combines course work, internships and alumni support to create an unforgettable educational experience.
The article is a part of his forthcoming book, “A Social Theory of Congress: Legislative Norms in the Twenty-First Century.”
The article is titled “The Changing Shapes of Latin American Welfare States."
Dickovick, who taught at W&L for 14 years, made a lasting impact on communities around the world.
One of W&L's signature programs, the Washington Spring Term Program introduces students to Capitol Hill, up close and personal.
As a candidate on the Fulbright Specialist Roster, Rush is now eligible to be matched with projects designed by host institutions in over 150 countries globally.
Special Topics in American Politics: Minority Rights and Gerrymandering challenged students to redraw the Virginia House and Senate districts to improve the election process.
Krista Camp ’13 is on the front lines of one of America’s most contentious issues — immigration.
We asked professors to share course materials and discussion questions to offer a sneak peek at the breadth of opportunities available during the best term of the year. 
Our favorite term is well underway! Here is a glimpse inside some of the many fascinating courses being taught off-campus this year.
Gastañaga's lecture, which is free and open to the public, is titled "Racial Justice at the Ballot Box: Moving Beyond Restoration of Rights." 
Washington and Lee University senior Kathryn McEvoy ’19 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain for summer 2019. 
Washington and Lee University senior Jackson Ellis ’19 has won a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany for summer 2019.
Garrett Clinton '20 says attending W&L is "like being dropped into a pool of opportunities.'' 
Minson is a politics major, with a minor in women’s gender and sexuality studies. 
At W&L, a combination of incredible courses, extracurricular opportunities and a warm community made for an experience Will Shannon '19 calls "uniquely mine."
Olubunmi is an entrepreneur and global advocate for migrants, refugees, and internally displaced people. Her talk, free and open to the public, is entitled “When Lions Write: Innovations in Advocacy.”
Mark Rush's piece was published Feb. 13 in the Richmond Times-Dispatch.
Zainab Abiza '19 interviews Morten Wendelbo '12 about his research focusing on economic development, humanitarian aid and food security.
In the Feb 5. op-ed, Strong examines Trump's "norm-shattering presidential behaviors."
Short's lecture is part of the broader Washington Term Speaker Series, “From the Colonnade to the Capitol… and Back.”
 In her speech, which is free and open to the public, Mourao will discuss the role news organizations play, not only in spinning news, but also in legitimizing topics and people.
Abiza will receive a master’s degree in global affairs from Tsinghua University in China.
Ben Capouya '20 interviews Victoria Kumpuris Brown '98 about her career in food policy and health at the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
 Zainab Abiza ’19 studied at Princeton and spent time in Rabat, Morocco, with a Davis Projects for Peace grant. This semester, she's working to expand her Davis project.
Dannick Kenon '19, who plans to attend law school and devote his career to positive social change, has co-founded a new student publication at W&L called The Vigil.
The talk is free and open to the public and the discussion will also be streamed live.
Washington Term, study abroad opportunities and internships—including one with the Philadelphia Eagles—have helped to shape Jason Renner's plans for the future.
She will speak on the electoral shift that supported Donald Trump’s victory in 2016 and reflect upon the 2018 elections.
In their discussion, the duo will address "Transatlantic relations between Poland and the United States."
Alexander explains why we should expect to see more rule-breaking in Congress from now on.
O’Neil’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled, “How Big Data Promotes Inequality and Threatens Democracy.” 
Professor Stuart Gray examines the Mahabharata with fresh eyes.
In the article Strong argues that "Now, more than ever, we need to take George Washington’s warnings to heart."
In his talk, which is free and open to the public, Mounk will discuss the rise of populism around the world.
A philanthropic twist on AirBnB, W&L's Habitat Hotel raises thousands for much-needed affordable housing in Rockbridge.
Anton's talk about constitutional self-government and the Trump presidency will be held in Northen Auditorium on Sept. 18 at 5 p.m. 
The Critical Language Scholarship Program has allowed Riley Ries '19 to strengthen his Russian and learn more about politics and culture in Kyrgyzstan.
Jackson Ellis '19 is working with a German consulting agency to help international student-athletes navigate the college application process.
In the Roanoke Times piece, Strong investigates the meaning behind the term "tabloid presidency." 
Students in the Cape Town Summer Internship Program gain professional experience and a better understanding of South Africa’s culture.
Mark Rush, Waxberg Professor of Politics and Law at W&L, has recently discussed constitutional amendments, 3D-printed guns and electoral maps.
Ali Greenberg ’13 has opened a flexible workspace and social club in Richmond that emphasizes community for women and gender minorities.
Strong is the William Lyne Wilson Professor in Political Economy at Washington and Lee.
Elizabeth Oliver will assume the role of associate dean beginning July 1.
Elizabeth McDonald heads to Japan, Emily Austin to Indonesia and Riley Ries to Kyrgyzstan.
Senior Stephanie Williams '18 says W&L's First-Generation Low-Income Partnership (FLIP) gave her support to overcome obstacles and mentor other low-income students.
Rush's piece was published in The Virginian-Pilot
ODK inducted four honorary and seven student initiates
Hannah Falchuk '18 hopes to improve her cultural understanding and language proficiency in the country.
She will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton followed by a service project in Morocco.
From Lexington to London, Faith E. Pinho '18 has had a vast array of experiences.
Strong's opinion piece was published by NBC News THINK.
Harleigh Bean ’18 studied in Paris, spent a summer at one of Middlebury's competitive language schools and attended the Public Policy and International Affairs Junior Summer Institute at Princeton University.
Jordan Goldstein's Washington and Lee journey can be followed through her love of music, her adventures on the stage — and the length of her hair. 
Monica Musgrave '18 is already double-majoring, but that didn't stop her from spending six-weeks in England studying two completely different subjects.
Skyler T. Zunk ’19 was an intern at the White House's Office of Political Affairs.
The William Jefferson Clinton Scholarship will allow Spiezio to attend the American University in Dubai during Winter Term 2018.
Laura Stagno '18 saw the faces of America's future leaders, including her own, through an internship on Capitol Hill.
Written on the occasion of the passing of Lew John
Professors share the inspiration for their first-year seminars, and what they hope students will take away.
Strong's piece was published in The Richmond Times-Dispatch.
Jonathan Rauch of the Brookings Institution will give a lecture titled “Unpresidented: Governing in the Age of Chaos.”
At W&L, Handelman taught popular courses in comparative politics, Chinese politics, Japanese politics, and U.S. foreign policy. 
John Bovay ’07, an assistant professor in the Department of Agricultural and Resource Economics at the University of Connecticut, focuses on the economics of food and agricultural policy
Both speakers have extensive experience as special investigators in high profile investigations involving both public and private sector work.
Fahrenthold’s talk, titled "Journalism in the Time of Trump,” is free and open to the public.
Zainab Abiza '19 spent the summer analyzing two Islamic State magazines in a timely project with Professor Seth Cantey.
Op-ed: What Dick Gregory taught me in a chance conversation
After spending Spring Term in Ethiopia, Jack Kaelin '19 is in Austin, Texas, helping refugees find a place to call home. 
Approval numbers rise and fall, but a few patterns persist, explains Strong.
Jason Renner ’19 interned this summer for two lobbying firms in Washington, D.C.
W&L's Mark Rush talks to USA Today about Russia sanctions.
This lecture is part of the Alumni College's summer program, "Camelot Reconsidered: The Presidency of John Fitzgerald Kennedy."
Joelle Simeu '20 is working this summer on "The Politics and Poetics of Space in the Works of Martin Luther King Jr. and Leopold Senghor," a project with Professor Mohamed Kamara.
The following opinion piece by politics professor Bob Strong appeared in Newsweek.
TeachingAmericanHistory.org interviewed Morel about teaching Colson Whitehead’s award-winning novel The Underground Railroad.
Rush's piece on legislative terms appeared in The Hill.
Participating in Mock Trial required loads of time for Avery Field '17, but he wouldn't trade the experience and relationships for a whole case of trophies.
Steven Yeung '17 has been in classrooms from Lexington to Ghana to Shanghai and back — and now plans to run a classroom in Japan.
Zachary Taylor '17 and Austin Piatt '17 believe leadership, collaboration and responsibility are the keys to a successful conference.
Amirah S. Ndam Njoya ‘17 believes leadership, travelling, service, and scholarship are all vital parts of the W&L experience.
What can you do in four years at W&L? How about manage a radio show, start a service organization, found a club, or publish an EP? Austin Frank ’17 has done them all.
Alora Martin, who is participating in an intensive language program for Arabic in Amman, Jordan, sees studying abroad as a necessary part of a modern education.
James W. Ceaser, the Harry F. Byrd Professor of Politics at U.Va. and a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, will speak on “The First 100 Days: Reflections on the Trump Presidency.”
Tyler Grant ’12, a graduate of Washington and Lee University and the University of Virginia School of Law, is a regular editorial contributor to several national publications.
LaPointe, who says his personal motto is "being genuine goes a long way," is a world traveler, professional debater, and Johnson Scholar.
An opinion piece about the presidential selection process by W&L's Bill Connelly appeared in The Hill.
Hannah Falchuk's passion for journalism has her reporting both in New York City and local Rockbridge.
Meet Yolanda Yang ‘18, who has traveled to China and back to discover the true purpose of cinematic censorship. Yang and study partner Savannah Kimble ’18 conducted research on this project in 2017 under the auspices of a grant from the Endeavor Foundation.
Bren Flanigan ’16 shares his economic skills and American culture as a Peace Corps volunteer.
Meet Ashley Faulkner ‘18, a University Ambassador with a passion for showing others why she loves W&L
Sahar Akhtar, assistant professor in the department of philosophy at U.Va., will speak on "Why Religious and Racial Immigration Bans are Wrong."
Diane Whitmore Schanzenbach, associate professor of education and social policy at Northwestern University and director of The Hamilton Project, will speak on “The Causes and Consequences of Food Insecurity.”
A multi-disciplinary Community-Based Research project gave Washington and Lee University students a chance to help local organizations take a closer look at access to affordable healthy food.
Lucas Morel, professor of politics at Washington and Lee, recently participated in a scholarly exchange with UCLA professor Melvin L. Rogers, on Starting Points, an online journal of the Kinder Institute on Constitutional Democracy at the University of Missouri.
Professors Marc Conner and Lucas Morel will present the John Chavis Lecture in African-American Studies, titled "The New Territory: Ralph Ellison and the 21st Century."
Students were motivated to travel to the presidential inauguration in D.C. to observe democracy in action.
Kara Karcher '11 is parlaying her studies in poverty and women's and gender studies into a law career dedicated to helping women and children.
Witt Hawkins ’18, a global politics major and mass communications minor from Memphis, Tennessee, received a William Jefferson Clinton Scholarship to attend the American University in Dubai.
Bob Strong's reflection on Somalia's 1992 Thanksgiving appeared in Newsweek on November 23.
Mark Rush's "A Thanksgiving Prayer" was published in The Roanoke Times on Thanksgiving day.
Washington and Lee faculty participated in a panel discussion on Thursday, Nov. 17, discussing the 2016 election from a variety of perspectives.
The following opinion piece by Mark Rush, Waxberg Professor of Politics and Law and director of international education at Washington and Lee, appeared in the Richmond Times-Dispatch on November 6, 2016.
Seth Cantey, assistant professor of politics at W&L, talks about Iraq's historical significance in a story for BBC Travel
What do college students think about the very unusual 2016 presidential election? Read on to find out.
The following opinion piece by Bob Strong, William Lyne Wilson Professor of Politics at Washington and Lee, appeared in the Richmond Times-Dispatch on October 29, 2016.
The Center for International Education at Washington and Lee University will present a panel discussion on “Brexit and the Crisis of Democracy in Europe” on Nov. 3 at 6 p.m. in the Stackhouse Theater in Elrod Commons at W&L. The discussion is free and open to the public.
Peter Wittig, German Ambassador to the U.S., will speak on “German Policy Toward the European Refugee Crisis” at W&L's Institute for Honor Symposium.
Steven Yeung, who turned 21 in June, was one of the youngest members of the Virginia delegation — and one of the youngest delegates nationwide — at the Democratic National Convention in July.
Bebe Goodrich '07 doesn't own a drip coffee maker, but she has built a fast-growing business cold brewing coffee in the tradition of her native New Orleans.
Dr. Gregory Kulacki, the China project manager and senior analyst in the Global Security Program of the Union of Concerned Scientists, will lecture at Washington and Lee on Oct. 10 at 5 p.m. in Elrod Commons 345. The title of the talk, which is free and open to the public, is “The Risk of Nuclear War between the United States and China.”
Denis “Pepe” Estrada Hamm and Jason Renner, both sophomores at Washington and Lee University, spent Sept. 13-15 at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s Public Policy Conference in Washington, D.C.
Sophomores Pepe Estrada and Jason Renner participate in public policy discussions at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s Public Policy Conference in Washington, D.C.
Shepherd Intern Hannah Falchuk '18 works for the Bowery Residents' Committee in New York City.
Steve Bragaw, visiting professor of politics at Washington and Lee, was interviewed on VA Talk Radio's "Mari and Brian in the Morning" about what to expect from the first presidential debate between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.
Seth Cantey, assistant professor of politics at Washington and Lee, was interviewed on VA Talk Radio's "The Weekend Show With Pattie Martin" on the 2016 presidential election.
The Departments of Journalism and Mass Communications and Politics at Washington and Lee University will host a mayoral debate on Oct. 11 at 7:30 p.m. in the Millhiser Moot Court Room of Lewis Hall, W&L’s Law School. Doors will open at 6:30 p.m.
The following opinion piece by Bob Strong, William Lyne Wilson Professor of Politics at Washington and Lee, appeared in The Roanoke Times on September 23, 2016, and is reprinted here by permission.
Co-directors of W&L Student Consulting keep their teams organized to deliver for the client.
Lessons learned from W&L and the Marine Corps helped John Warren ’03 create Lima One Capital to make positive impact on neighborhoods.
Hit Show Inspires Spring Term Course on the Politics of Race and Gender.
The Constitution Day lecture at Washington and Lee University, featuring Dr. William B. Allen, emeritus professor of political philosophy at Michigan State University, will be Sept. 16 at 4:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
"W&L has allowed me to satisfy my need to wander."
Recipients of W&L's Certificate of International Immersion reflect on their experiences abroad.
Connor Chess '17 spends a summer studying, working and teaching in Costa Rica, thanks to a Wooley Fellowship.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Kayla Sylvester '17 Volunteers with a Local Literacy Council in South Dakota.
Politics and Spanish major Noelle Rutland '17 interns for the Department of Defense.
Cynthia Cheatham '07 finds purpose in a variety of settings as she advocates for underrepresented communities.
Director of International Education .
"I have been challenged to step outside my comfort zone, encouraged to pursue my passions, and nurtured as a student, a leader and an individual."
Rising senior Steven Yeung was one of the youngest members of the Virginia delegation — and one of the youngest delegates nationwide — at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia.
An excerpt from "Mock Con," a documentary funded by W&L's Class of 1953 and narrated by author and former CBS newsman Roger Mudd '50, on the drama and inspiration of the first 25 Mock Conventions at Washington and Lee University.
Amber Cooper '12 brings her passion for creativity and communications to her marketing career.
"I will always remember my time at Washington and Lee because it has helped me to grow and realize my interests."
Johnson Opportunity Grant winner dives into local politics in Nashville.
Katie Baird '10 connects with students interested in consulting careers.
Politics Professor Bob Strong reflects on the educational experience of Mock Convention.
A Spring Term course helps students grasp the separation of powers in the U.S. Constitution.
Johnson Opportunity Grant winner gets a taste of state politics the Tennessee State Capitol.
"This university can open many doors for its students, most of them unexpected."
"Both my academic and extracurricular involvement have fostered an interest in entrepreneurship, which has led me to work for a startup through Venture for America next year."
Kate LeMasters is a politics and economics major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Abilene, Texas. She studied global health and development policy in Geneva, Switzerland and Rabat, Morocco, with SIT Study Abroad.
Ambassador Theodore Kattouf, the first speaker of Washington and Lee’s 2016-18 Center for International Educational Colloquium on “Borders and Their Human Impact,” will give a lecture on Sept. 14 at 5:15 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
The return of students in the fall elicits mixed emotions. We feel the absence of those who have moved on even as we welcome the fresh and eager, first-year (FY) students.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Politics archive.