Megan Dufault ’24 is studying the risks that environmental pollutants pose to fetal development.
W&L’s Summer Research Scholars program gives students hands-on experience in collaborative research with faculty mentors.
Sadie Charles Calame ’23 is working as a construction lead for Teton Habitat for Humanity.
Blake Sanchez ’23 is working as a management consultant in the Public Health Segment at Guidehouse in Washington, D.C.
Gabby Emge ’23 will be pursuing her J.D. at Harvard Law School.
Reese was motivated by her summer research experience to pursue a career in medicine.
W&L neuroscience students recently partnered with an innovative art-making program offered at Kendal at Lexington.
Magoti’s summer internship allowed him to apply knowledge from his neuroscience classes while also exposing him to cutting-edge technology in the field.
Davis’s summer internship reinforced his career aspirations as a neuroscience major.
Sadie Charles Calame ’23 has built a well-rounded college experience through campus and community involvement.
Sanchez plans to pursue graduate study in public policy after graduation.
The Robert Lee Telford Professor of Psychology retired in 2001.
Dan Johnson seeks to develop assessment tools to foster creativity in STEM education.
Despite challenges presented by the Covid-19 pandemic, many students were able to travel this summer for valuable professional experience in other countries.
Kiera Stankewich ’25 tackled food justice in Louisville, Kentucky this summer through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty.
Kristen Xu ’22 worked diligently during her time at W&L to accomplish her dream of working with a beauty company after graduation. Currently, she is a global marketing coordinator at NARS Cosmetics in New York.
Assenso, a neuroscience major, is heading to the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York, where she will be a clinical research coordinator.
The STEM-focused endowment will support internships, research opportunities, academic conference costs and other student experiences.
Students from W&L’s Neuroscience Program hosted an event for local elementary students on March 18.
Katie Volk ’18 will give a seminar on her doctoral dissertation research on March 16 at 5 p.m. in the Science Addition Room 214.
After the pandemic canceled his original internship, Blake Sanchez '23 went to work for the Virginia Department of Health and the Campus Kitchen at W&L.
Hollis Owens ’97’s nonprofit offers people with disabilities opportunities to present to, and educate, schoolchildren about their lives.
At W&L, Eric Herrera did field work in Ghana, created a biotech startup, and discovered the original location of the Alamo.
Mock Con 2020 Financial Chair Elizabeth Thompson '20 works with the rest of the Financial Team to raise and manage significant sums for a successful event.
Working with ICU patients at Vanderbilt University Medical Center through the Allen Grant has reaffirmed neuroscience major Laney Smith's desire to become a surgeon.
Carpenter will study in Lübeck, Germany, at the University of Lübeck. She will work in a lab that focuses on the dietary regulation of tissue circadian clock function in mice.
The award recognizes faculty at Virginia’s institutions of higher learning who exemplify the highest standards of teaching, scholarship and service.
At prestigious labs around the country, W&L students have pushed themselves and the frontiers of science in the quest to find a cure for a rare disease.
Deepthi Thumuluri '20 won a Virginia Academy of Sciences grant to continue her research into the relationship between diet-induced obesity, exercise and the gut microbiome.
Megan Engeland '19 spent her summer in a research laboratory in the psychology department at the University of Sydney in Australia.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Midha Ahmad '21 and Sawera Khan '21 to spend the summer in Pakistan, where they compared alternative medicine to traditional treatment.
Erin An '19 has spent time this summer researching immunotherapy treatments for pediatric cancer at the University of Virginia.
Elmes taught at Washington and Lee University for 40 years until his retirement in 2007.
The professor of psychology emeritus died June 4.
The Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE) research fellowship will allow her to conduct research at the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute for Chemical Defense.
The NSF only funds about 11,000 of the 40,000 proposals it receives annually for research, education and training projects. 
Emily Perszyk ’18 reflects on what W&L has to offer in the classroom and on the court — and how it led to her interest in the study of taste, smell and flavor.
ODK inducted four honorary and seven student initiates
Andrew Mah ’18 has spent his undergraduate career studying the circadian rhythms of spiders.  
Uma Sarwadnya '19 knew she wanted to be a doctor her whole life. What she didn't know was how many unique opportunities she would find at W&L to support her journey — including a project with ants.
Charles Montgomery, urban design consultant and award-winning journalist, is the fourth speaker in the Questioning Intimacy Series.
Jackson Roberts '19 had the opportunity to intern in Quito, Ecuador, exploring local customs, becoming part of the community, and learning the ins and outs of healthcare.
Shadowing surgeons in Thailand made neuroscience major Emily Ellis '18 even more excited about her chosen career path.
Hannah Palmatary '18 spent the summer discovering the ancient ruins of Greece, as well as her own talent and passion for creative writing.
A summer at UC San Diego gave Katie Volk '18 experience working in a big research environment
Shadowing doctors in Peru allowed Bryan D'Ostroph '19 to practice his Spanish and firm up future career plans in health care.
Twelve Class of 2021 students visited W&L for a five-week Advanced Research Cohort program that allowed them to dabble in STEM projects and establish quality relationships.
Jake Roberts' study abroad trip started with an earthquake, and ended with him finding a passion for public health.
Melina Knabe was inspired by her own bilingualism to study the effects of knowing two languages on the brain.
Sierra Noland and Tara Cooper received Critical Language Scholarships sponsored by the U.S. Department of State.
Meet Andrew Mah ‘18, an accomplished mathematician who found an unlikely passion - spiders!
Meet Tara Loughery, a junior who was considering going pre-med, but decided to pursue a different path after the STEM Career Trip to Richmond.
Meet Andy Cuthbert '18, a pre-med neuroscience major with a serious love of the outdoors.
Henry Eugene King, professor emeritus of psychology at Washington and Lee University, died on Oct. 31, at his home in Lexington, Virginia.
The neuroscience major and philosophy minor will use her $500 research grant to fund her senior honors thesis.
American students traveled abroad with international students for summer projects they created together. .
Nicole Gunawansa ’14 is passionate about delivering health care to marginalized patients.
W&L Psychology professor Tyler Lorig reports from his AAAS fellowship on Capitol Hill.
Alessandra Catizone '15 and Eleanor Jones '15 provide prosthetic hands to amputees in El Salvador.
Christopher Levy '15 and Sara Korash-Schiff '15 study the production of overtones in choral music.
Araba Wubah '17 conducts immunology research in Ghana.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Neuroscience archive.