Starting in July, Bishop will participate in a year-long cultural immersion program in Germany.
The Critical Language Scholarship Program funds a summer of overseas language and cultural immersion.
Hafsa Oubou’s essay “Churches Can, Mosques Can’t” appears in the January edition of Canopy Forum.
Washington and Lee’s Center for International Education awarded deBuchananne funding to study Arabic at the University of Jordan this summer. 
Anthony Edwards’ article focuses on the 19th-century Orientalist Gregory M. Wortabet.
Anthony Edwards illustrates his case study that focuses on Khalīl al-Khūrī, a central figure of the Nahḍa.
Arabic professor Anthony Edwards recently published a paper titled “Becoming the Muʿallim: how tradition and innovation made a Nahḍa icon.”
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Christy Childs ’26 and Griffin Conti ’26 will receive funding to study foreign languages this summer.
Rojas has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Mexico.
Washington and Lee's Center for International Education awarded two students funding to study Arabic at the University of Jordan this summer.
Anthony Edwards, Theodore Van Loan and Kameliya Atanasova were featured at the annual event. 
Seth Cantey is an associate professor of politics and a core faculty member for the Middle East and South Asian Studies program.
Timothy Lubin and Anthony Edwards both presented at the event held in Berlin earlier this month.
Johnston was recently awarded a fellowship to the Center for Arabic Study Abroad at the American University in Cairo.
The Weinstein Scholar annual program invited students to take a culinary trip around the world without leaving the Washington and Lee campus.
Riter will spend the next academic year volunteering with a community organization, working as an English teaching assistant and taking courses at the University of Graz.
Six undergraduate students received Critical Language Scholarships, which will provide them the opportunity to study language intensively during summer 2022.
Arabic professor Anthony Edwards recently published “An Incomplete Journey Away from the Past: The Life and Ideas of Antonius Ameuney (1821–1881).”
Kerin recently published a paper titled "Cut, Tuck, and Paste: Repurposing Mass-Produced Imagery at Buddhist Shrines in Ladakh, India."
The article examines the impact of a stronger intellectual property rights (IPR) regime through the adoption of Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) on innovation by Indian firms in the bio-pharmaceutical industry.
Two presenters who met at a 2017 conference at Washington and Lee joined forces to repatriate a stolen Nepali deity. 
Johnston has won a Gilman Scholarship to study abroad with Middlebury Abroad at Mohammed V University in Rabat, Morocco.
Estrada Hamm recently received a David L. Boren Scholarship from the National Security Education Program to study abroad in Jordan.
Tanner Hall ‘21 was recently awarded a fellowship to the Center for Arabic Study Abroad program at the American University in Cairo.
As Executive Committee president for the 2020-21 school year, Chase Calhoun '21 hopes to protect the Honor System and make a positive impact in areas of racial inequality and systemic racism.
Studying philosophy and Arabic, traveling to Morocco and Beirut, and working with Professor Anthony Edwards to translate a Beiruti book have helped Tanner Hall '21 understand and appreciate other cultures.
Four Washington and Lee University students are spending time this summer in Beirut, where they are immersed in Arabic language and Lebanese culture.
Syed is a biology major and a Middle East and South Asia studies minor.
Studying Arabic in Jordan and Lebanon has given Sierra Terrana '20 a new outlook on Islam and the Middle East—one that she hopes to parlay into a legal career.
In response to student demand, Washington and Lee University has added three new interdisciplinary minors to enrich its curriculum.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Midha Ahmad '21 and Sawera Khan '21 to spend the summer in Pakistan, where they compared alternative medicine to traditional treatment.
This elegant bowl, which is part of W&L's Reeves Collection, can be traced back to the Opium War of 1839-1842.
Senior Stephanie Williams '18 says W&L's First-Generation Low-Income Partnership (FLIP) gave her support to overcome obstacles and mentor other low-income students.
Zainab Abiza '19 spent the summer analyzing two Islamic State magazines in a timely project with Professor Seth Cantey.
Ramadan will speak on “Equality as a Social Requirement and a Human Ideal.”
Alora Martin, who is participating in an intensive language program for Arabic in Amman, Jordan, sees studying abroad as a necessary part of a modern education.
Fulbright Scholar and foreign language TA Imad Baazizi gave W&L students an introduction to Moroccan culture, including traditional Moroccan tea.
Gwyn E. Campbell, professor of Spanish at Washington and Lee University, is the new associate dean of the college, beginning July 1. She succeeds Marcia France, who has held that post since 2012.
Washington and Lee University this year welcomes seven foreign language teaching assistants.
Imad Baazizi is one of seven foreign language teaching assistants at W&L this year.
Ambassador Theodore Kattouf, the first speaker of Washington and Lee’s 2016-18 Center for International Educational Colloquium on “Borders and Their Human Impact,” will give a lecture on Sept. 14 at 5:15 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Middle East and Southeast Asia Studies archive.