The former executive director of ArtPower at the University of California, San Diego will begin his new role in July.
The award-winning ensemble’s performances will run March 14-16.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company’s alumni-student dance performance in New York City’s Center for Performance Research returned after a four-year hiatus.
The New Zealand-based choreographer will teach a master class for the campus community on Jan. 30.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company’s performances will run Nov. 30 through Dec. 2.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company will perform ‘W&L Dancers Create…’ on Nov. 3–5.
The groups will present a combined dance and music performance on March 10-12 at 7:30 p.m. on the W&L campus.
The all-male dance group will perform their delightful parodies of great ballet classics at the Lenfest Center for the Arts on Feb. 15.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company will perform ‘W&L Dancers Create…’ Nov. 11-13 at 7:30 p.m. each night.
Tickets for the 2022 season can be purchased online using a credit card or in-person at the Lenfest Center box office beginning Nov. 30.
Professor Davies received the National Dance Education Organization 2021 Outstanding Dance Education Researcher Award.
The performances will take place live and online on May 20 and 21 at 2:30 p.m.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company performance will stream for free online on March 25 and 26 at 7 p.m., March 27 at 6 p.m. and March 28 at 2 p.m.
Bioh's hit comedy "School Girls; Or, The African Mean Girls Play" will be screened online March 16, and a virtual talk by Bioh will occur March 18.
Elliot Reza Emadian ’17 will teach a virtual master class in screendance, a form that merges cinematography and choreography.
The award-winning W&L Repertory Dance Company will perform W&L Dancers Create … 2020 virtually on Nov. 5 and 6 at 7:30 p.m. and Nov. 7 at 2 p.m.
The performance will run Oct. 15-18, and it is free and open to the public to watch via livestream.
Six accomplished artists will give virtual master classes for the Washington and Lee community this academic year, covering a wide range of dance styles, from hip-hop to K-pop.
When the 25 members of W&L’s Repertory Dance Company were dispersed by COVID-19, director Jenefer Davies found a creative way for them to perform together again.
Writer Branden Jacobs-Jenkins, who based this play on the anonymous 15th-century "Everyman," presents a new take on an old story and the old question of what happens when we cross over to the other side.
Snyder is a journalist known for her works on the topic of domestic violence.
Tickets to the show can be ordered online or at the box office.
 Call the Lenfest Center box office today at 540-458-8000 to reserve tickets.
 The group will light up the stage with their traditionally Zimbabwean music ranging from genres such as Afro Jazz and Gospel music. 
The grant will help fund a project to bring professors from the six ACS dance departments to participating campuses and create a model for shared teaching.
W&L students and faculty, as well as members of the Rockbridge Ballet, will participate in the event.
The program will include multifaceted dance works created by nationally renowned choreographers, as well as new aerial dance technology.
BodyVox comes to Lexington for a one-night performance at the Keller Theatre at 7:30 p.m. on Jan. 10.
Take a peek behind the Lenfest curtain for 2018-19.
This summer, Davis Straske '19 is researching children's play in psychology professor Megan Fulcher's Gender Development Lab. 
ODK inducted four honorary and seven student initiates
Che Malambo comes to the Keller stage for a one-night performance on April 26.
Her poem "Nasty Woman" and performance were the inspiration for a student-created dance.
Professor Jenefer Davies talks about her new book on aerial dance and the physical and artistic challenges of working against gravity.
Jenefer Davies will talk about her recent book, “Aerial Dance: A Guide to Dance with Rope and Harness.”
Performances will run March 1-6.
Students play a key role in creating the visual styling for upcoming productions by the theater department. 
Students and alumni members of the award-winning W&L Repertory Dance Company will perform in NYC the last weekend in Jan.
The stand-out, 10-member ensemble is praised for its confident execution of a wide range of styles. 
The performance will be comprised of work choreographed, designed and performed by students.
The event is a fundraiser for the W&L Chapter of the National Honor Society of Dance Arts.
The show will run Thursday, Oct. 26 through Sunday, Oct. 29.
W&L's Theater, Dance and Film Studies, along with the Department of Music, present the Robert O. and Elizabeth M. Bentley fall musical, “The Addams Family, A New Musical.”
Dancer, choreographer, musician, mathematician: Elliot Emadian '17 has many roles, both on and off the stage. 
Free performances will take place at Wilson Hall at 3:30 p.m. on May 18 and 11 a.m. on May 19.
The Washington and Lee University’s Department of Theatre, Dance and Film Studies presents the W&L Repertory Dance Company’s winter concert in a program of multifaceted dance works created by nationally renowned choreographers.
Complexions Contemporary Ballet comes to the Lenfest Center for a one-night engagement on Jan. 11.
Matthew Reichel '17 didn't expect to be cast as Edward in Washington and Lee's production of "Sense and Sensibility," but now he is embracing the part.
On Nov. 10-12, the award-winning Washington and Lee Repertory Dance Company will perform "W&L Dancers Create….”
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Dance archive.