The Critical Language Scholarship Program funds a summer of overseas language and cultural immersion.
Hongchu Fu offers a look into the Yuan Dynasty under Mongol Rule in “Three Yuan Plays by Yang Zi.”
Lozinskaya, a 2022 graduate, will receive a master’s degree in global affairs from Tsinghua University in China.
The Weinstein Scholar annual program invited students to take a culinary trip around the world without leaving the Washington and Lee campus.
Six undergraduate students received Critical Language Scholarships, which will provide them the opportunity to study language intensively during summer 2022.
Approximately 70% of students participate in an abroad program during their time at W&L.
Amelia Lancaster '22 has used her W&L experience to explore a number of interests, ultimately finding a passion in museum studies and Chinese that has allowed her to co-curate a museum exhibition on campus.
John Adekola ’24 sees his role with Phonathon as a chance to make a difference at W&L.
A deer figure on display in a new Watson Galleries exhibit, "Auspicious Animals," is an example of the Chinese practice of blending European tastes with encoded symbolic meaning.
When her Critical Language Scholarship to China went virtual because of COVID, Kisker '21 got a six-week sampler of the country and its language through her computer screen.
Garfinkel will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton
Our favorite term is well underway! Here is a glimpse inside some of the many fascinating courses being taught off-campus this year.
This elegant bowl, which is part of W&L's Reeves Collection, can be traced back to the Opium War of 1839-1842.
Dr. Ling-ting Chiu, a Fulbright Scholar and assistant professor of history at Soochow University in Taiwan, spent the summer at Washington and Lee studying the works of former W&L professor and artist Professor I-Hsiung Ju.
The title of Bello’s talk is: “A Bug-eyed View of Environmental History.”
The interactive exhibit will be on display in Staniar Gallery through March 17.
Sima Sharma ’18 used her time at W&L to explore her passion for the world and its various cultures through volunteering and study abroad.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Xiaoxia Yin '20 and Sesha Carrier '20 to study traditional folk singing in China.
Steven Yeung '17 has been in classrooms from Lexington to Ghana to Shanghai and back — and now plans to run a classroom in Japan.
Guen splits his time between hiking the mountains of Rockbridge and traveling the world.
Tyler Grant ’12, a graduate of Washington and Lee University and the University of Virginia School of Law, is a regular editorial contributor to several national publications.
For World Thinking Day, W&L's foreign language teaching assistants led local Girl Scouts in a variety of internationally themed activities.
In the first installment of our new series, Ron Fuchs tells the story behind a 4,000-year-old jar in Watson Pavilion.
Washington and Lee University this year welcomes seven foreign language teaching assistants.
Mengsu Kong is one of seven foreign languaga teaching assistants on the W&L campus this year.
Steven Yeung, who turned 21 in June, was one of the youngest members of the Virginia delegation — and one of the youngest delegates nationwide — at the Democratic National Convention in July.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Chinese archive.