Taryn Washburn ‘24L discusses her experience working with clients in the Trusts and Estates Practicum.
In an article on OpinioJuris, Drumbl discusses the legacy of the Special Court for Sierra Leone and its residual function.
This year’s event will take the form of a conversation between Judge Luttig and Professor Brian Murchison.
After graduation, Tara Blackwell will be working at the Greater Chicago Legal Clinic (GCLC) as a Donoghue Fellow with the Homelessness Advice and Representation Program.
Rachel Hubbard is the Communication and Marketing Coordinator and has worked at W&L Law since February 2017.
The team of Alexis Acosta, Simon Ciccarillo, and Christian Sanchez Leon received the top award for petitioner brief.
In an article for the Columbia Law School Blue Sky blog, Parella explores the ways in which corporate stakeholders influence corporate actors.
Maier has been named as the Distinguished Bankruptcy Law Student for the Fourth Circuit.
Six 2L students had their scholarly work selected for publication in the Journal.
The title of her talk is “From Intersectionality to Allyship: Bridging the Gaps.”
University Provost Lena Hill addressed new members of ODK during their spring induction ceremony.
Joshua Fairfield is the William Bain Family Professor of Law and the Director of AI Legal Innovation Strategy at W&L Law School. 
Arthur Vorbrodt is a senior counsel in the Transactions Practice Group at Foley & Lardner in Dallas.
Members of the W&L Law chapter of the Federalist Society discuss the organization's purpose and activities.
Lillian Weitz '25L discusses her research with the UN Office of Drugs and Crime.
Toles, a member of the W&L Board of Trustees, was recently named a fellow of one of the premier legal associations in North America.
Sabrina Callender-Clewett '25L writes about the German Law Journal's trip to Berlin.
Emma Martone is the Administrative Assistant for the Law Library and Law Center.
The article looks at current instability involving corporate shareholder voting rights, examining it through a historical lens.
Professor Mark Drumbl participated in a conference examining the legacy of the international court that prosecuted war crimes.
The article outlines the historical underpinnings of corporate cooperation, and expands upon the literature considering the structural, constitutional, and normative issues with corporate cooperation.
In an article for the ECGI blog, Haan challenges a central assumption of early 20th century corporate law.
Karen Woody has been a professor of law at W&L since July 2019.
Noriya Shahadat is an associate in the Environmental and Mass Tort litigation group at McGuireWoods.
The team of Jack Perryman ‘25L and Jack Kellerman ‘25L won best brief and were the runners-up at the event.
Terri Byrnes is an Academic Administrative Assistant II with the Law School.
After graduation, Catalina Perez will head to Kennedys in Philadelphia, working in insurance coverage.
Last year, Butler became the first Black judge in Virginia’s 24th District.
The article takes the form of a fictional narrative evoking George Orwell's classic novel to examine flaws in the legal system.
Colin Matthaei ‘24L spent the fall semester working in the Intellectual Property group at Nixon Peabody in Washington, D.C.
Anna Fernandez is the Assistant Director of Community and Recruitment for Law Student Affairs.
A biotech executive made $120,000 when he bought stock options on a drug company that he did not work for. 
Joshua Justus '24L discusses studying law abroad at Trinity College in Dublin, his first time living outside the U.S.
The lecture is scheduled for Wednesday, Feb. 21 at 1 p.m. in Sydney Lewis Hall Classroom B
The case spanned nearly two years and involved two sets of clinic students who worked to secure the outcome.
The pioneering online and open-access journal sees its impact in recent top ranking from Google Scholar.
Woody, a corporate law scholar, and Drumbl, an expert in international law, were recognized for their outstanding scholarly work.
The article examines confidentiality agreements that operate to prevent employees from accepting new positions under threat of breach of contract.
Hasbrouck reviewed "Shielded: How the Police Became Untouchable" by Joanna Schwartz.
The article, "Delegated Corporate Voting and the Deliberative Franchise," examines a shift in the shareholder voting process that could impact wealth maximization.
Woody is among 13 new members to join the Board and will serve a three-year term.
W&L alumni Chip Nunley '81 and Mark Peake ‘88L will also serve in leadership roles with the organization.
Following a clerkship and working as a prosecutor, Gretchen Panchik now practices in the areas of commercial litigation and insurance recovery.
Topics include voting rights litigation in federal and state court, current issues in election administration, and proposed legislation to protect the right to vote.
Lexi Acosta '24L spent the fall semester as a judicial extern in the Roanoke City Juvenile and Domestic Relations Court.
Maureen Edobor ‘17L is an Assistant Professor of Law and DeLaney Center Fellow. 
Newly promoted faculty members will present their research in a PechaKucha format on Jan. 30.
Gould’s new duties will include developing a robust pro bono program and advising students who engage in service efforts.
Following his service in the JAG Corps, Christian Addison opened ASE Representation, a full-service sports and entertainment agency.
Elizabeth Outland Branner currently serves as the Senior Advisor of Law School Advancement.
Wilson appears at number 14 on the list as she begins her presidency of the Association of American Law Schools.
The article examines how corporations are affecting foreign policy by using economic means to reward or punish countries involved in conflict.
Freda Coleman-Jackson has been named Interim Assistant Dean of Career Strategy, taking over for Cliff Jarrett '91L, who departs the law school this month.
Several members of the W&L Law faculty will present at the annual academic conference hosted by the Association of American Law Schools.
Jose Lopez '24L describes his clinical experience and trip to Mexico City to advise migrants and refugees on the U.S. asylum process.
Brian Murchison, Charles S. Rowe Professor of Law, has been on the law faculty since 1982.
Madison Howell ’24L spent the semester as an extern in the litigation office of the Plan Benefits Security Division.
Suzanne Wade is the Assistant Director for Employer and Alumni Outreach for the Office of Career Strategy and Law Advancement.
Professor Alan Trammell published "The False Promise of Jurisdiction Stripping."
Patrick Bolling is a principal at Woods Rogers, advising a variety of employers in traditional labor and employment.
Michelle Cosby is the Assistant Dean of Legal Information Services and Professor of Practice. 
Chrishon McManus ’14L—attorney and competitive swimmer—radiates calm when it counts.
The mission of Law Families is to support law students and their partners, spouses, or children during law school and to create a welcoming and inclusive community.
Alexis Smith spent her summer working in the litigation department of the AARP Foundation.
Leila Lawlor is Director of the new Academic Excellence Program and a Professor of Practice.
Hughes has over 16 years of experience in fundraising and development within the education sector, including a stint at W&L Law earlier in her career.
An anonymous donor will match up to $2 million for student scholarship funds raised during the Leading Lives of Consequence campaign.
Catlin Meade is a professor of practice who has been teaching legal writing since 2022. 
In this role, Fairfield will lead efforts within the law school to create policies, initiatives, and programing to support faculty, staff, and students as AI use grows and evolves.
Professor Sarah Haan published "Women in Shareholder Activism."
Kristy Speers is the Senior Recruitment Coordinator at W&L Law.
Lauren Griffin is an associate at Alston & Bird LLP, working in the Intellectual Property Litigation group based in the Charlotte, North Carolina office.
Washington and Lee University School of Law will host the 2023 Law and Literature Seminar on Oct. 27-28. 
Alexi Pfeffer-Gillett joined W&L Law this fall as an assistant professor. 
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck published "Democratizing Abolition."
The Women Law Students Organization at Washington and Lee University School of Law will host the 10th Annual Lara D. Gass Symposium on Women in the Law on Friday, October 13.
Christina Querrard is a custodian at Washington and Lee and works in Sydney Lewis Hall. 
Ana Laura Coria split her time interning at a small legal firm in Verona, Italy and the U.S. Attorney’s Office of the Southern District of West Virginia.
Barbara Merryman spent her summer clerking with the Juvenile Litigation Division of the Maryland Office of the Public Defender in Baltimore.
Lisa Rodocker serves as assistant dean of admissions for the Law School.
The event will bring together scholars from around the globe to consider the problem of sexual violence and examine how law can help.
Ashley Evans joined W&L Law in November 2022 as the Head of Collection Services for the Law Library.
Jared Hunter spent the summer as an associate at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP in New York City.
The Disabled Law Students Association is striving to create a community for students with disabilities and a more accessible legal field.
Mariya Denisenko worked as a summer associate at Sidley Austin’s Chicago office.
Symone Gibbs is from Smithfield, Virginia and received her undergraduate degree from Virginia Commonwealth University.
Erica Ingersoll is an Executive Assistant in the Dean’s Office of the Law School.
Yardley Borten spent the summer as a legal intern at the Mid-Atlantic Innocence Project (MAIP) in Washington, D.C.
Carson Cox and Trey Smith, both new associates at Troutman Pepper in Richmond, are involved with a pro bono case concerning veteran's benefits.
Nathan Heastie is from Nassau, The Bahamas and attended the University of Florida for his undergraduate degree.
Aya Hobeika is from Houston, Texas and attended Texas A&M for her undergraduate degree.
A total of 20 new faculty are joining the university this year.
A total of 25 new instructors join the W&L community.
Brian Murchison addressed the Roanoke chapter of the Federal Bar Association to discuss notable cases from the 2022 term.
Jordan Hicks ‘24L and Fenja Schick-Malone ‘24L will be honored for their contributions to the Law Review.
Adnan Kajoshi is from Tuckahoe, New York and attended New York University for his undergraduate degree.
Jasmin Oommen is from Philadelphia and attended La Salle University for her undergraduate degree.
Tom Boss worked as a summer associate with Williams & Connolly in Washington, D.C.
Emilio Avila is from Laguna Niguel, California and attended San Francisco State University for his undergraduate degree..
Annual Provost’s Lecture celebrates W&L faculty for excellence in scholarship and teaching.
Lindsay Lankau is from Charleston, SC and attended the University of Tennessee for her undergraduate degree.
Following his entrepreneurial passions, John Henry gets comfort from his discomfort.
The class includes 125 students from 21 states and six countries, representing 83 different undergraduate institutions.
Matt Boaz is acting director of the Immigrant Rights Clinic and a Professor of Practice.
Arianna Kiaei spent her summer as a judicial intern at the U.S. Court of International Trade in New York.
Professor Sarah Haan was quoted extensively in a Bloomberg Law news article on a challenge brought by business groups to a new SEC disclosure rule.
Jessica Tracy is General Counsel at video hosting, sharing, and services platform provider Vimeo.
Haan’s talk “The Democratization of Shareholding: Power and Passivity in American Corporate and Political Governance” will be held on Sept. 5.
Jane Pultz is the Dining Shift Supervisor for the Brief Stop located in the law school.
A Q&A with Law Dean Melanie Wilson
Virginia’s, and perhaps the nation’s, oldest practicing lawyer.
Negin Farahmand Wood is Senior Assistant Public Defender at Office of the Public Defender for Fairfax County.
The W&L community is invited to the 2023 Convocation on the Front Lawn on Sept. 7 at 5:30 p.m.
Jon Shapiro is a Professor of Practice who has taught at W&L for 13 years. 
Prof. Kish Parella published "International Law in the Boardroom."
Dr. Rigoni will contribute to the law school’s comparative law seminar, which surveys German law and legal culture. 
Ryan Redd is an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Lubbock Division of the Northern District of Texas.
Sarah Cravens is a Visiting Professor of Law, who joined the law school as of June 2023. 
Prof. Karen Woody published "Caremark's Butterfly Effect."
W&L Law is pleased to announce the following faculty joining the law school for the upcoming academic year.
105 students and recent graduates received grants to support their work in public interest positions.
W&L Law Dean Melanie Wilson has announced the annual awards that recognize faculty members for their accomplishments as teachers and scholars and for service to the school.
Prof. Josh Fairfield published "Making Virtual Things."
Beth Belmont has been named Director of Experiential Education, and Brandon Hasbrouck will lead the Frances Lewis Law Center.
Prof. Matt Boaz published "Speculative Immigration Policy."
Prof. Russ Miller published "Pandemic as Transboundary Harm: Lessons from the Trail Smelter Arbitration."
Seaman joined the Washington and Lee Law faculty in 2012.  His research and teaching interests include intellectual property, property, and election law and voting rights.
Florentina Butler is the Associate Director of Law School Advancement.
Alan Trammell will present "The False Promise of Jurisdiction Stripping," which is forthcoming in the Columbia Law Review.
The project will require periodic modifications to pedestrian and vehicular traffic in the area.
W&L Law student Charles Scharf '25L ran school best times in the 5K and 10K, all while dealing with the rigors of 1L year.
After graduation, Sam Romano will work as a Deputy District Attorney at the Denver DA’s Office.
Lexi Weber '23L discusses her year helping miners get federal benefits.
The Washington and Lee University School of Law celebrated its 168th commencement on Friday, May 12, awarding 106 juris doctor degrees.
Josh Keruski ‘21L and Ainsley-Brooke Satterwhite ‘22L are both stationed at Fort Novosel in Alabama as members of the U.S. Army JAG Corps. 
Jenny Mitchell is the Archivist and Special Collections Librarian in the School of Law.
Sheryl Salm is a senior legal assistant for the Black Lung and Criminal Justice Clinics.
David “Freedi” Friedfeld ‘83L was honored with the Outstanding Alumnus Award. Nan Hannah ‘93L, Tom Mitchell ‘93L, and Kit Thomas ‘18L were recognized for volunteer work.
Anne Rodgers '20, '23L writes about her experience using creativity and emotion in her work helping her client seek asylum.
The April conference explored children ensnared in violent situations, including armed conflict and liberation struggles.
The two-day conference in March provided a unique opportunity for students to conduct and share original research in a professional setting.
Wendy Rice is the Sr. Administrative Assistant (Team Lead) for Faculty Services in the School of Law.
In the Rights of Prisoners practicum, Courtney Ebersohl '24L urges the Virginia Parole Board to see past the crime.
Russell Miller is the J.B. Stombock Professor of Law at W&L Law where his research and teaching focus on public law and comparative law.
Supreme Court of Virginia Justice Cleo E. Powell will serve as the law school’s commencement speaker for the Class of 2023 in May.
According to the report, 96.6 percent of the class of 2022 secured a job that either requires bar passage or for which a J.D. degree is an advantage.
Mallory Kostroff ‘23L discusses her year as a student attorney in the Criminal Justice Clinic.
Johanna Bond, Sydney and Frances Lewis Professor of Law at W&L Law, has been named as the next Dean of Rutgers Law School. Bond will assume her role at Rutgers on July 3, 2023.
Baluarte will teach in the Refugee Law Clinic and assist in the development of clinical legal education more broadly at the Iberoamericana University.
Judge Carlton Reeves of the U.S. District for the Southern District of Mississippi cited Hasbrouck's article "The Antiracist Constitution."
An internationally recognized law and society scholar, Fineman is a leading authority on critical legal theory and feminist jurisprudence.
After graduation, Sierra Terrana will work in-house for IBM.
Allison Wexler Weiss teaches legal writing and prison law.
After graduation, Francis Morency will join Shumaker, Loop & Kendrick LLP in the firm’s Tampa Office as an associate in the Bankruptcy practice group.
W&L Law has announced the creation of a program to guarantee financial support for current students and graduates interested or serving in public interest and government careers.
W&L President Emeritus Kenneth Ruscio addressed new members of ODK during their spring induction ceremony.
Philip J. Hirschkop, a civil rights lawyer who argued the landmark Supreme Court case that struck down state bans on interracial marriage, will deliver the annual Leslie Devan Smith, Jr. Lecture at W&L Law this month. 
After graduation, Alicia Ochsner Utt will be working at the King County Department of Public Defense in Seattle, Washington.
Audrey Curelop '23L discusses a recent research trip to Tanzania as part of the International Human Rights Practicum.
Ben Richie works for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in the Division of Corporation Finance’s Disclosure Review Program.
The teams earned honors for best petitioner and best respondent briefs at the NBLSA conference.
After graduation, Maddie Hawkins will be a corporate law associate with Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, LLP in New York. 
Gwen Marshall is the Assistant Director of Law Admissions.
Ben Davis, a visiting professor at W&L Law, received the 2022 Outstanding Contribution to Diversity in ADR award from the International Institute for Conflict Prevention and Resolution (CPR).
Winni Zhang '24L discusses her work in the Immigrant Rights Clinic, where she has been able handle important legal matters from start to finish.
As an international research fellow, Professor Parella will help research the role of social evaluations in business and society. 
This year’s symposium investigates why and how blockchain technology is relevant to the legal community. 
After graduation, Grant McClernon will join the Washington, D.C. office of Kirkland & Ellis, working with the healthcare transactions team of the Private Equity group.
After graduation, Marshall Branch will join the U.S. Army JAG Corps.
Professor Carla Laroche published "Black Women and Voter Suppression."
Melissa May ’23L spent the fall semester as an extern in the Delaware Court of Chancery under Vice Chancellor Lori W. Will. 
Junior and Natey Kinzounza, who met at W&L Law, are both trial attorneys who honed their skills in moot court and summer externships.
After graduation, Sica Matsuda will be a litigation associate at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP in Washington, D.C and then a clerk for Judge Amy Berman Jackson at the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.
Lisa Hedrick, partner and chair of the M&A and Finance practice group at the firm Hirschler Fleischer, has been recognized for her work in the field.
Charisma Hunter ‘23L and Kobie Crosley ‘23L took first place in the competition and also took top honors with the Best Petitioner Brief award.
Sandy Hooper ’97, ’03L sold his home and went part time at work to travel the country in a camper van.
Part memoir/part biography, the book tells the story of the Reverend Russ Ford, who served as the head chaplain on Virginia’s death row for eighteen years.
The Honorable Robert E. Payne, senior United States District Court Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia (EDVA), has been awarded the prestigious Harry L. Carrico Professionalism Award for 2023 by the Virginia State Bar Section on Criminal Law.
Ben Halligan '23L discusses his year as a student attorney in the Tax Clinic, helping clients resolve post-filing controversies with the IRS.
The conference will be held via Zoom on February 16 from 10:00 am to 12:00 pm EST. 
Jack Perryman '25L is from St. Louis, Missouri. He attended Centre College for his undergraduate degree.
Before law school, Kali Venable '25L worked as a public safety reporter, and later as an investigative and environmental reporter at a daily newspaper in central south Texas.
Ali Fazal '25L is from Raleigh, North Carolina. He is a graduate of the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
Zoe Speas ’25L hails from Cumberland, VA. She graduated from the College of William and Mary in 2012 before moving to New York City to embark on a career in the theater.
Katherine Berman '25L is from Houston, Texas. She is a 2022 graduate of W&L.
Nick Payne '25L is from Louisville, Kentucky. He received his undergraduate degree from the University of Kentucky.
Marc Sendra ‘25L is originally from Orlando, FL and attended the University of Central Florida for his undergraduate degree. 
Ebony Aiken ‘25L is originally from Jackson, Mississippi and attended the University of Houston for her undergraduate degree. She also obtained a master’s in public policy from the University of Arizona. 
Shannon McGrath ‘23L spent the fall working in the criminal defense practice of the Brooklyn Defender Service.
As a member of the NAC, Woody will review decisions rendered in FINRA disciplinary and membership proceedings.
Nikolaus Smith '23L spent the fall semester as a judicial extern for the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
Students have launched a new affinity group to support Middle Eastern and South Asian students during law school. 
‘Irreverence With Some Measure Of Reverence’
Janssen Evelyn ’06L uses resilience and intentional joy to find his purpose.
After a successful career in big law, Michael Cohen ’90L returns to his passions of poetry and painting.
The scholarship of Prof. Brandon Hasbrouck was downloaded nearly 13,500 times during 2022, placing him 16th on a list combining scholars from all categories of legal research.
This fall, Joseph Aminov '23L researched cryptocurrency and other emerging financial technologies with the law firm Pryor Cashman.
Professors Joshua Fairfield and Kish Parella were recognized for their outstanding scholarly work.
The AALS House of Representatives voted to accept Wilson’s nomination as the 2023 President-elect. Wilson has served the AALS in numerous capacities, including membership on its Executive Committee since 2020.
A variety of events and lectures are planned for this year’s observance of MLK day.
In her role, Saez Tatman will develop and implement programs to enrich the law school experience and to help law students succeed in school, personally, and professionally.
Freda Coleman-Jackson is the Assistant Director of Career Strategy and has worked at W&L Law since May 2020.
As a public defender, Chris Chino enjoys fighting for his clients in the "theatre of trial."
Recent articles by Sarah Haan on sexism in corporate governance were featured in a commentary by New York Times business and economic columnist Peter Coy.
Michelle Lyon Drumbl, Robert O. Bentley Professor of Law and Director of the Tax Clinic at the Washington and Lee University School of Law, has been named as the next Associate Dean for Academic Affairs.
Brun-Ozuna received the Hobbs Fellowship from the National Consumer Law Center.
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck published "Reimagining Public Safety."
David Eggert is a Professor of Practice who teaches a range of courses, including Antitrust, Conflict of Laws, Remedies, Torts, Property, and Complex Litigation.
Vest will oversee the creation and management of the operating budget of the Law School and be responsible for various reporting obligations.
Before starting law school, Ebony Aiken worked in real estate and in policy research with AmeriCorps Public Allies division.
Prof. Brandon Hasbrouck published "Movement Constitutionalism." 
W&L provides Yellow Ribbon funding to an unlimited number of undergraduate and law students covering their tuition and fees. Currently, ten W&L Law students receive Yellow Ribbon, GI Bill, or other veteran benefits.
Before law school, Zoe Speas worked as a Shakespearean actor and musician across the country, eventually joining the American Shakespeare Center.
Sica Matsuda ‘23L and Brian Warren ‘23L were assigned the case as part of their work with the school’s Criminal Justice Clinic.
Before law school, Marc Sendra helped look after the mental and spiritual well-being of 500 soldiers as a Religious Affairs Specialist.
The Washington and Lee Journal of Civil Rights and Social Justice will host its annual symposium on Friday, November 4. This year’s event is titled “60 Since the 60s: Civil Rights Yesterday, Today, Tomorrow.”
Nam Kang enjoys solving the puzzles in compliance investigations as a member of the regulatory team at Troutman Pepper.
This symposium will highlight the experiences of women over the past 50 years in relation to three pivotal events that are all observing anniversaries.
Prof. Tim MacDonnell published "Making An Offer That Can’t Be Refused: The Need For Reform In The Rules Governing Informed Consent And Doctor-Patient Agreements."
Before law school, Kali Venable worked as a public safety reporter, and later as an investigative and environmental reporter at a daily newspaper in central south Texas.
In a new role focusing on pedagogy, W&L Law professor Jill Fraley will design faculty workshops to help the law school advance science-based teaching practices that further student learning and inclusivity.
Anika Maan spent her summer working for the United Nations: Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) in Suva, Fiji. 
Prof. Brandon Hasbrouck published "On Lenity: What Justice Gorsuch Didn’t Say" examining the decision in Wooden v. United States.
The College, the Williams School and the Law School have combined to hire 25 visiting faculty members and two postdoctoral fellows for 2022-23.
Ella Bishop spent her summer as a judicial intern for Judge Lucy Inman at the North Carolina Court of Appeals and Justice Samuel Ervin IV at the North Carolina Supreme Court.
Professor James Moliterno's recent publications include the third edition of "Global Issues in the Legal Profession."
Arroyo is responsible for planning, implementing, and managing delivery of registrar services and student academic information within the Law School.
This summer, Jacob Wamsley worked as a summer associate with the in-house legal counsel at FedEx Ground’s corporate headquarters in Pittsburgh, PA.
The Frances Lewis Law Center at W&L Law has secured carbon offsets to address the Center’s impacts on climate change.
Combined, the College, the Williams School and the Law School have hired 23 Faculty Members.
Elizabeth Pruitt spent her summer working at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in Fort Worth, TX.
Prof. Brian Murchison reviewed the last term term of the U.S. Supreme Court and the development of the "major questions" doctrine.
Maeve Harris spent her summer working for Judge Richard G. Latin of the Supreme Court of New York.
Buff will serve as the Housing Justice Fellow with Community Legal Services of Prince George’s County, Maryland.
Law professor Mark Drumbl recently provided expert testimony to the drafting committee tasked with developing a protocol to the United Nations Convention to Eliminate Racial Discrimination.
Rob Hawes spent his summer working for Jones Day in Frankfurt, Germany.
Prof. Markard will contribute to the law school’s comparative law seminar, which surveys German law and legal culture.
Students have launched a new organization to support first-generation students during law school.
On Tuesday, August 23, Washington and Lee University School of Law enrolled 125 students in the J.D. Class of 2025.
Although clerking after law school was not part of her plan, Georgi Pisano Goetz '20L is about to start her third after stops in Baltimore and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Maan received support for her summer placement with the UN Office of Drugs and Crime in Fiji.
Professor J.D. King published "Juries, Democracy, and Petty Crime."
Professor Carliss Chatman published "We Shouldn't Need Roe."
Governor Glenn Youngkin has proclaimed July 31, 2022 to be The Honorable Paul S. Trible, Jr. Day in the commonwealth of Virginia.
With his company NOCAP Sports, Casey Floyd '15L helps athletes and agents negotiate and transact NIL deals.
W&L Law alumnus Henry C. Leventis '03L has been tapped by President Joe Biden to serve as U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee.
Professor Heather Kolinsky published "Storytelling, The Sound of Music, And Special Teams: Revisiting Some Basic Legal Writing Techniques With Fresh Eyes."
Generous law alumni, parents and friends contributed over $1.6 million to W&L Law’s Annual Fund in the 2021-22 fiscal year.
Parella, a professor in Washington and Lee’s School of Law, will hold the position for a three-year period.
Prof. Alex Klein published "When Police Volunteer to Kill."
Six members of the faculty were recognized for their contributions in the classroom, to scholarship and to experiential education.
Jonathan Thomas, a member of the Law Class of 2024, has been chosen for a 2022 Disaster Resilience Program Fellowship through Equal Justice Works.
W&L Law professor Sarah Haan has been named to be the inaugural Class of 1958 Uncas and Anne McThenia Professor of Law. Her appointment is effective July 1, 2022. 
The National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) has announced the appointment of Pranita A. Raghavan as NEH’s new Assistant Chair for Planning and Operations.
Dr. Christelle Molima Bameka presented her research related to the effects of colonialism on violent conflict in East Africa.
Professor David Baluarte published "Refugees Under Duress: International Law and the Serious Nonpolitical Crime Bar."
Michelle Cosby, Assistant Dean of Legal Information Services and Professor of Practice, has been selected to attend the Harvard Graduate School of Education Leadership Institute for Academic Librarians.
Prof. Matt Boaz published "Practical Abolition: Universal Representation as an Alternative to Immigration Detention."
Prof. Josh Fairfield published "'You Keep Using That Word': Why Privacy Doesn’t Mean What Lawyers Think."
Tara Blackwell, a member of the Law Class of 2024, has been chosen for a 2022 Rural Summer Legal Corps Fellowship.
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck Published "Movement Judges."
Prof. Chris Seaman, along with coauthor Thuan Tran '21L, published “Intellectual Property and Tabletop Games.” 
"Classroom Insiders," a podcast produced by Prof. Karen Woody and her students, has been honored by the Academy of Interactive and Visual Arts.
Prof. James Moliterno published "Introducing Students to Ethics and Professionalism Challenges in Virtual Communication."
The Washington and Lee University School of Law celebrated its 167th commencement on Friday, May 13, awarding 119 juris doctor degrees.
As global head of litigation for 3M, Courtney Enloe ‘97L is never bored. And that’s the way she likes it.
Prof. Josh Fairfield published “Governing the Interface Between Natural and Formal Language in Smart Contracts.”
Lizanne Thomas, a member of the W&L Law Class of 1982 and partner-in-charge of the southern region for the law firm Jones Day, will deliver this year’s commencement address during the graduation exercises at Washington and Lee University School of Law.
Townsend won the competition for her paper "Second Middle Passage: How Anti-Abortion Laws Perpetuate Structures of Slavery and the Case for Reproductive Justice."
Law professor Karen Woody breaks down some of the history behind Elon Musk’s relationship with Twitter and the controversy surrounding the takeover of the company.
Meet Melanie Wilson, the next dean of W&L Law. Her appointment is effective July 1.
After graduation, Elena Schiefele will work for a law firm for a year and then clerk for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.
Prof. Kish Parella published "Contractual Stakeholderism"
Bobby Hatten '72L was honored with the Outstanding Alumnus Award. Jim Seevers '97L and Bo Mahr '17L were recognized for volunteer work.
Katie Pauly will be working as a clerk on the Montana Supreme Court after graduation.
Sarah Childs will be working for Parr Brown Gee & Loveless in Salt Lake City, Utah, focusing on Intellectual Property. 
Trey Smith will be working at Troutman Pepper in Richmond, joining the firm’s White Collar Litigation and Investigations practice group.
According to the report, 90.7 percent of the class of 2021 secured a full-time, long-term job that either requires bar passage or for which a J.D. degree is an advantage.
Lauren Robertson will be working with the litigation group at Holland & Knight LLP in the firm’s Tampa office.
Mari Gonzalez will be working in the corporate department at Latham & Watkins’s D.C. office.
Prof. Sarah Haan published "Corporate Governance and the Feminization of Capital."
On Friday, April 8, Northwestern University history professor Susan J. Pearson will deliver the annual Hendricks Lecture in Law and History. The title of Pearson’s talk is “What’s in a Document? Birth Registration and Identity in American Law and History.”
Melanie D. Wilson has been named the next dean of Washington and Lee University’s School of Law. She will also hold the Roy L. Steinheimer Jr. Professorship in Law.
Rich Gilliland will be working for Waller Lansden Dortch & Davis, LLP in the firm’s Austin, TX office, focusing on litigation.
Siegel’s lecture is titled “Equal Protection and Abortion in Dobbs.”  During her talk, Prof. Siegel will discuss an amicus brief she authored with constitutional law scholars Serena Mayeri and Melissa Murray in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization.
After graduation, Gallagher is headed to New York to work in the state and local tax group at PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck published "The Antiracist Constitution."
Phil Brown '85L blends history and science fiction in his inaugural novel "It Gives You Strength."
As Content Director for NASALSA, Maan is getting a chance to network with South Asian lawyers and advance the organization's mission.
Prof. Mark Drumbl was interviewed on NPR’s All Things Considered to discuss the whether Russia's assaults on Ukraine constitute war crimes.
Law professor Mark Drumbl and Scholar-in-Residence Barbora Hola are working on a book that explores why people inform on others under authoritarian regimes.
Murray’s talk is based on her recent article published in the Harvard Law Review, “Race-ing Roe: Reproductive Justice, Racial Justice, and the Battle for Roe v. Wade.”
Kristin Barkemeyer ‘22L and Max Blumenthal ‘24L were semifinalists in the competition, and Barkemeyer was named Best Oralist.
The symposium is scheduled for Friday, March 11 and will include a keynote address by Adrien Wing, Associate Dean for International and Comparative Law Programs and Bessie Dutton Murray Professor at University of Iowa College of Law.
Professor Jill Fraley published "Against Court Packing, or a Plea to Formally Amend the Constitution."
Washington and Lee law professor Karen Woody and the students in her Insider Trading seminar recently launched a podcast that explores the arc and evolution of insider trading over the last century.
The W&L Law Review has published a first‑ever volume dedicated to showcasing the work of Black authors.
Ronald Davis was given 80 years in prison—an effective life sentence—for a series of armed robberies where no one was hurt and he never held a gun. 
W&L Law is seeking to raise $200,000 to support the Journal in perpetuity and increase publication rate.
The Journal of Civil Rights and Social Justice will host its annual symposium on Thursday, Feb. 10 and Friday, Feb. 11.
Her talk, "The Importance of a Legacy—What Will Yours Be?,” is scheduled for Tuesday, February 8 at 2:00 p.m. in the Millhiser Moot Court Room, Sydney Lewis Hall.
The brief concerns the case of Dominic Ongwen, a Ugandan former child soldier and military commander, who is appealing a conviction for war crimes committed in the early 2000s.
On Feb. 3 at 5:00 pm, Cane will give a talk titled “Serving Justice: Clerking for Lewis Powell, and His Timeless Lessons for Young Lawyers.”
W&L Law alumnus Victor O. Cardwell ‘87L has been elected to serve as the 134th President of the Virginia Bar Association (VBA). Cardwell’s election marks the first time a Black lawyer has served as VBA President.
Tax law expert Randle Pollard has joined the W&L Law faculty as the Rochelle and Thomas McN. Millhiser ‘81L Professor of Practice. 
Allison McJunkin ‘04L helps kids take flight through mentoring program.
Enix-Ross will give a talk entitled "Undeterred Dreams" on Monday, Jan. 17 at 3:00 p.m. via Zoom.
This year's observance of MLK day will comprise a variety of events and lectures.
The faculty of W&L Law are well represented at this year’s annual academic conference hosted by the Association of American Law Schools. 
Interim Dean Michelle Drumbl has announced the appointment of Michelle Cosby as Assistant Dean of Legal Information Services and Professor of Practice . Her appointment takes effect June 1, 2022.
Washington and Lee law professor Karen Woody and the students in her Insider Trading seminar have launched a podcast that will explore the arc and evolution of insider trading over the last century.
Professor Carliss Chatman published "Corporate Family Matters."
W&L Law students offer free estate planning to area residents.
A new book from W&L Law professor Johanna Bond pulls together decades of research to address identity discrimination.
W&L Law students help launch local businesses.
Hellwig will take a leave of absence from W&L to lead the program, which is considered the premier graduate tax program in the country.
This summer, Kobie Crosley split his time interning with K&L Gates and the U.S. Steel Corporation in Pittsburgh, PA.
Kylan Memminger spent her summer as a tax intern in the Chicago office of Deloitte. She will return to work there after graduation.
Charisma Hunter '23L becomes first African American Woman on Law Review.
This summer, T.J. Benedict '22L was a Summer Honors Law Clerk in the EPA’s Office of General Counsel.
During his summer position in the DC office of Sheppard, Mullin, Richter and Hampton, Jake Walker '22 did it all, and came away with a job offer.
Fletcher, who was publisher and editor-in-chief of Virginia Lawyers Weekly for more than 30 years, will lead a volunteer professional association with over 4000 members.
Demleitner, the Roy L. Steinheimer Jr. Professor of Law, will lead the college's Annapolis campus.
This summer, Nate Reynolds worked in a variety of practice groups for Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen, and Hamilton in New York.
Kolinsky, who joined W&L Law in 2021, teaches legal writing and professional responsibility.
The Washington and Lee University community remembered the tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001, with a memorial ceremony and placing of 2,977 American flags on Stemmons Plaza.
The undergraduate and law classes of 2020 got a chance to return to campus, experience a traditional in-person ceremony, and celebrate their graduation with friends and family at an event that had been postponed for more than a year amid a pandemic.
The 8th Annual Lara D. Gass Symposium on Women in the Law is on Friday, September 17 from 9:00 a.m to 1:00 p.m. through Zoom.
Washington and Lee's newest class moves in, talks about why they chose W&L, and gets ready to rock this academic year. 
Griffin currently serves as the Associate Dean for Strategic Initiatives and a professor of law at Mercer University, where he has taught since 2006.
Washington and Lee University marks this milestone anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks with a special collection of stories.
The W&L community is invited to the 2021 Convocation on the Front Lawn on Sept. 9 at 5:30 p.m.
The Washington and Lee University community this year will remember the tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001, with a memorial ceremony, prayer vigil and placing of 2,977 American flags.
Professor Cary Martin Shelby published "Profiting From Our Pain: Privileged Access to Social Impact Investing."
Washington and Lee University School of Law welcomes several new teachers and scholars to the faculty this year.
This summer, Alex Castro '22L was a legal intern for El Centro de los Derechos del Migrante, a nonprofit that specializes in labor rights violations committed against migrant workers.
Alumni and faculty reflect on the legacy of the Virginia Capital Case Clearinghouse, closing its doors after over 30 years serving capital defense attorneys.
The official Commencement ceremony for the undergraduate and law Classes of 2020 will take place on Saturday, Sept. 11, beginning at 10:30 a.m. on campus.
Professor Kish Parella was honored by the American Business Law Journal with the Hoeber Award for Excellence in Research.
Neufville, an immigration attorney based in Maryland, competed in the 1996 Olympic games representing Liberia.
The piece, based on a forthcoming article in the Stanford Law Review, is a fascinating look at the history of women shareholders.
Juval Scott, an adjunct professor of law and Federal Public Defender, has been recommended by U.S. Senators Mark Warner and Tim Kaine to fill a judicial vacancy in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Virginia.
Brandyn Jordan has joined W&L Law in the newly created position of Assistant Director of Admissions and Student Affairs, Diversity Recruitment and Engagement.
Professor Joshua Fairfield was quoted in a column titled "Amazon wants to use radar so Alexa can watch as you sleep."
Robinson succeeds Jamie Kipfer, who is departing the role on June 30.
Six members of the faculty were recognized for their contributions in the classroom, to scholarship and to experiential education.
In a commentary in The Nation, Alex Klein and Brandon Hasbrouck discuss South Carolina's newest execution method.
Kimberly Shi will be working for Clifford Chance LLP in the firm’s Washington, D.C. office, focusing on litigation and dispute resolution.
The two-part blog interview covered a wide range of topics, including child soldiers and ecocide.
The Washington and Lee University School of Law celebrated its 166th commencement on Friday, May 7, awarding 119 juris doctor degrees.
Young alumna and current law student Cat Spencer '20, '23L shares her perspective on W&L and giving back.
A new book by W&L Law professor Joshua Fairfield examines how the law can keep pace to govern rapid advancements in technology.
Russell Miller, J.B. Stombock Professor of Law at Washington and Lee University, is the recipient of a Humboldt Research Prize, one of Germany’s highest academic honors.
Rebecca Mitchell will be clerking on the Vermont Supreme Court for two years.
Joshua Fairfield contributed to an article on Vox.com discussing the erosion of personal ownership.
In 2020, Julie Youngman introduced significant programmatic and curricular development in W&L’s new interdisciplinary program on Law, Justice and Society.
The Washington Post published a commentary by Nora Demleitner on reducing the influence of prosecutors and victims on parole decisions.
Kevin Batteh '95, '98L is W&L's first Bitcoin donor.
Campbell was a champion of desegregation in Virginia and worked to fight Virginia’s program of massive resistance.
Washington and Lee School of Law has announced the winners of the annual alumni awards. The presentation occurred during a virtual Law Reunion gathering held April 10.
Prof. Mark Drumbl commented in the Washington Post on a new U.S. anti-doping law that could have consequences for sporting events around the globe.
Michelle Drumbl and her fellow panelists will share their research and perspectives on the future of refundable tax credits.
As the new General Counsel for the Carolina Hurricanes, Nigel Wheeler '15L has fulfilled his dream of a legal career in professional sports.
Parella will partner with Professor Rachel Lopez of Drexel School of Law and Patrick Pearsall of the firm Allen & Overy to chair the annual conference.
Alumni David Hurst '14L and Kasia Wiggins '20L discuss the new effort to support first-generation students.
Lewis Law Center Scholar-in-Residence Matthew Shaw will give a talk on the educational jurisprudence of Justice Lewis Powell.
W&L Law Professor Carliss Chatman explored institutional history to animate the study of the Uniform Commercial Code for her students.
After his start as a prosecutor, Dan Collopy ’81L found his way into intellectual property law, and a career in Asia.
Noriya Shahadat '21L and Tomi Akinmola '21L also won best brief and best oral advocate in their last ever moot court competition.
Alan Trammell joined W&L Law in 2020. He teaches and writes primarily in the fields of civil procedure, federal courts and conflict of laws. He is recognized as one of the leading authorities on nationwide injunctions.
Washington and Lee law professor Karen Woody has been selected for a fellowship with the Herndon Foundation aimed at preparing diverse professionals for positions on corporate boards.
On Friday, April 9, UCLA law professor Adam Winkler will deliver the annual Hendricks Lecture in Law and History. The title of Winkler’s talk is “How Corporations Became People.”
Matt Kaminer ’22L, Carson Cox ‘22L, and Rich Gilliland ’22L are headed to Nationals after winning the Washington D.C. Regional ABA National Appellate Advocacy Competition
The Washington and Lee Law Review’s annual Lara D. Gass Symposium at the Washington and Lee University School of Law will examine the judicial legacy of the Hon. Roger L. Gregory, Chief Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.
Two books by Washington and Lee law professor Joshua Fairfield are featured in a recent New Yorker article on Big Tech and data privacy.
Professors Kish Parella and Jill Fraley talk virtual book clubs and happy hours.
Forman is the J. Skelly Wright Professor of Law at Yale Law School and the author of the Pulitzer Prize winning book “Locking Up Our Own: Crime and Punishment in Black America.” 
The Feb. 24 online lecture, titled “Black Entrepreneurs: Where Does Money Fit into Protest?,” will examine capitalism as a part of the Black freedom-fighting arsenal.
The latest turn in the winding career path of Christopher Riano ’10L finds him leading a national effort to improve civic education and engagement.
The W&L Law team of of Noriya Shahadat ‘21L and Tomi Akinmola ‘21 won the award for best brief in the national Thurgood Marshall Moot Court competition, and Shahadat was named best oral advocate.
"W&L After Class: The Lifelong Learning Podcast" invites listeners to join conversations with W&L's expert faculty, giving them a walk down the Colonnade from the comfort of their home.
Prominent teacher, philosopher and public intellectual Dr. Cornel West will deliver the second Annual Leslie Devan Smith, Jr. Lecture at W&L Law as the keynote speaker in the Black History Week event series organized by the Black Law Students Association.
Prof. Sarah Haan coauthored a commentary for Project Syndicate on using stock price to judge performance.
Andrew Dagen '22L got the chance to work in the United States Tax Court in Washington D.C. after it reopened virtually this fall.
How are people like companies? Prof. Carliss Chatman explains in her new children's book, "Companies are People Too."
Prof. Alan Trammell coauthored a commentary in the Washington Post examining Sen. Josh Hawley's legal arguments on the election.
New members will be inducted into the national leadership honor society at W&L’s Founders Day/ODK convention, which will take place in a virtual format on Jan. 19 at 5 p.m.
A public defender with the Legal Aid Society of New York City, Buckmire '14L is also the host of “Law & Crime Daily,” a nationally syndicated program described as ESPN’s ‘SportsCenter’ for courtroom drama.
Spencer Cox, a 2001 graduate of Washington and Lee University School of Law, was sworn in Jan. 4 as governor of Utah following his victory in the general election held in November. He is the state’s 18th governor.
Doug Rendleman, Robert E.R. Huntley Professor of Law Emeritus at Washington and Lee University School of Law, has been named the 2021 recipient of the Lifetime Scholarly Achievement award from the Remedies Section of the Association of American Law Schools.
In a commentary for The Nation, W&L Law professor Brandon Hasbrouck argues for counting Black votes twice to overcome unequal representation.
The award honors a faculty member who, through activism, mentoring, teaching and scholarship, has made an extraordinary contribution to legal education, the legal system or social justice.
Competitors overcome format changes to gain valuable advocacy experience.
With podcasts that look inward and outward, the Younis brothers amplify their perspective as global citizens.
Nam Kang ’21L and Nate Reynolds ‘22L reflect on how their experience with Teach for America is guiding their time in law school and beyond.
Washington and Lee University is among the 51 inaugural member institutions* of the Liberal Arts Colleges Racial Equity Leadership Alliance, a new initiative from the University of Southern California's Race and Equity Center.
Lena Hill, dean of the College and professor of English and Africana studies at Washington and Lee, has been appointed to be the university’s next provost, beginning July 1, 2021.
As vice president and chief compliance officer for a pharmaceutical company, Tina Beamon uses her legal background to promote the greater good.
As Senior Corporate Counsel at UKG Inc., Rachel Rosetti works on a wide variety of data privacy, data protection, and data security matters.
Third year law student Erin Hayes works pro bono as legislative director for the Racial Justice Coalition of Texas.
The event is scheduled for Oct. 29 and 30 and will be hosted on Zoom.
Valeria Espinal '23L and Blake Kang '23L made it to Lexington despite many hurdles.
In a Richmond Times commentary, Hasbrouck discusses court packing and a new standard for justices on the highest court in the land.
Rice's lecture, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Cultural Norms and the Export of the W&L Honor System."
Michelle Lyon Drumbl, Robert O. Bentley Professor of Law and director of the Tax Clinic at the Washington and Lee University School of Law, has been appointed to a one-year term as interim dean of the law school effective July 1, 2021.
As senior product counsel at Twilio, Ernest Hammond's work is centered at the intersection of tech, healthcare, and telecommunications.
Patrick Wright used his experience during his 1L and 2L summers at Jones Day to learn the practice and make connections.
A new installation at Washington and Lee University School of Law celebrates the first female graduates of the law school.
Although Agbenohevi was able to travel to Utah for her job, the COVID-19 pandemic still played a role in her experience working in the financial crimes division.
The 7th Annual Lara D. Gass Symposium on Women in the Law is on Friday, September 18 from 8:00 a.m to 1:00 p.m. through Zoom.
Hellwig, who took the helm of the law school in 2015, helped navigate the Law School through a difficult financial period and oversaw significant improvements in applications and entering class credentials, among other achievements.
Baluarte’s argument centers on the ability of stateless refugees to seek asylum in the United States and involves a client he has represented for many years, a man named Miliyon Ethiopis.
Reddy's summer internship allowed her to apply her interest in international development to a new area, examining legal issues for women with disabilities.
Members of the Critical Race Theory class at W&L Law recently took a short field trip "across the ravine" to meet with Dr. Lynn Rainville, director of institutional history, for a discussion about the University's ties to slavery.
The Washington Post published a commentary by Nora Demleitner on efforts to re-institute parole in Virginia.
Alan M. Trammell, an expert on nationwide injunctions, joins the permanent faculty. Matthew Shaw visits W&L Law as Scholar-in-Residence.
Franks, a professor of law at the University of Miami School of Law, will discuss the topic of her 2019 book, “The Cult of the Constitution: Our Deadly Devotion to Guns and Free Speech.”
With the COVID-19 pandemic still spreading across the U.S., Washington and Lee Law has created an intricate but flexible back-to-school schedule that is based around the individual needs and the unpredictability of the future.
Helping plan the 2020 convention has required creativity and flexibility as the COVID-19 pandemic has required big changes to the event.
In this podcast series from the Office of Lifelong Learning, Bond dives into the world of human rights, highlighting the justice reforms achieved by nonprofits with which she works.
MacDonnell argues against new proposals to shift prosecutorial powers from military commanders to senior military lawyers.
The June 24 hearing examined the issue of China’s legal responsibility for the global COVID-19 pandemic.
Five members of the faculty were recognized for their contributions in the classroom, to scholarship and to experiential education.
The brief seeks to protect two provisions of the Affordable Care Act that impact coal miners' ability to receive payments through the Black Lung Benefits Act.
John Sicilian ‘85L, Andy Lee ‘90L and Katie Waibler 15L were honored for their accomplishments and contributions to the law school.
In a new piece in Slate, Hasbrouck argues that Congress can transform policing and promote racial justice through the 13th Amendment.
Jennings will start on August 10 and will succeed Dennis Cross, who is stepping down at the end of the calendar year after serving 16 years as W&L’s V.P. of university advancement.
Sarah Van Horn will work as an Assistant Commonwealth’s Attorney in the Northampton County Commonwealth Attorney’s Office in Eastville, Virginia.
At the blog LawFare, Russ Miller examines a ruling by the German Constitutional Court limiting German espionage activities.
After graduation, Karen Vallejos-Corrales will work for Texas Rio Grande Legal Aid, an organization that provides free legal services to low-income people facing legal problems.
After graduation, Amanda Triplett will practice antitrust law as a trial attorney in the Health Care Division of the Federal Trade Commission’s Bureau of Competition in Washington, D.C.
After graduation, Lara McMahon will work for Vinson & Elkins in the firm’s Washington, D.C. office and is planning on a career in government investigations and white collar defense.
After graduation, Junior Ndlovu is headed to the Allen law firm in Fredericksburg, VA to serve as a plaintiff's attorney.
Kelly Evans '07 interviewed Dudley about his hopes and plans for students' return to campus in the fall.
Insider trading is back in the news, although some would argue it never left.
Charette is headed to the Boston office of Proskauer Rose, working on private equity deals with their Private Investment Funds group.
Law professors Michelle Drumbl and J.D. King have been named to chair professorships.
Achievements in academics and service are among the awards and honors announced by the School of Law.
Freda Coleman-Jackson has joined the Office of Career Strategy (OCS) at Washington and Lee University School of Law as assistant director.
After graduation, Natalia Homchick will be working at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP in New York City in the firm’s corporate department.
Washington and Lee University School of Law will hold an online event at 10 a.m. on Friday, May 8 to confer law degrees on the 154 graduates of the Law Class of 2020.
Russ Miller has joined two other Virginia law professors in an amicus curiae brief in a case challenging the Governor’s lockdown order as it applies to indoor shooting ranges.
After graduation, Kim Blasey has two clerkships lined up, first in Maryland Circuit Court and then in U.S. District Court in New Mexico.
After graduation, Kat Phillips '20L will be serving a two-year judicial law clerkship with the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) in Falls Church, Virginia through the Department of Justice Honors Program.
Bruck is urging Virginia Governor Ralph Northam to grant early release to elderly, parole-eligible inmates due to concerns that prisons will soon become hotspots for the COVID-19 outbreak.
Utah Lt. Gov. Spencer Cox ‘01L is leading the state’s response to the COVID-19 outbreak.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, members of the Washington and Lee University community are finding ways to lend a hand with community relief efforts.
Should criminal legislation put in place to fight terrorism be used to fight the virus?
How will the international law principles established in the Trail Smelter Arbitration of the 1920s inform liability for the spread of COVID-19.
Veteran capital defense attorney and clinical professor of law David Bruck will represent one of the men accused of plotting the Sept. 11 attacks.
Kipfer succeeds Scott Dittman, who will step down as registrar on June 30 after serving in the role for 35 years.
According to the report, 92.7% of the class of 2019 secured a full-time, long-term job that either requires bar passage or for which a J.D. degree is an advantage.
Grading practices, hiring and the future of the bar exam are just a few of the areas impacted by the virus outbreak.
Strasser is urging residents of hard-hit Louisiana to be on the lookout for criminal activity.
After hearing about job loss following the Coronavirus outbreak, Eric Chaffin knew he wanted to do something to help.
3L Kyle Hess reflects on the Global Corruption and Good Governance Practicum.
Melissa Lagoumis '20L writes about how a 3L externship changed her outlook and her career.
Miller is currently clerking for Judge Lawrence VanDyke on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.
Kate and Colin Emrich '21L reflect on choosing to settle in the Shenandoah Valley for three years.
Helen Gray Dunnavant '20L shares experiences from her internship last summer.
Kevin Euceda, a Honduran immigrant seeking safety from persecution in the United States, saw confidential therapy notes used against him in court. Now, legislation has been introduced to stop the practice. 
The university has canceled all campus events featuring external speakers or visitors beginning at noon on Saturday, March 13 and continuing through Saturday, April 18.
Hundreds of teams participate each year in this competition focused on a dispute between nations.
Sascha L. Goluboff, professor and chair of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Washington and Lee University, has been named the university’s next director of community-based learning. W&L Provost Marc Conner announced the three-year appointment, which will begin on July 1.
Mary Kate Nicholson '20L reflects on her externship, saying the general counsel is a "jack of all trades."
Jessiah Hulle ‘20L and Tomi Akinmola ‘21L were the runners-up in the National Thurgood Marshall Moot Court Competition, held this weekend in Cincinnati during the National Black Law Students Association conference.
Kasia Wiggins '20L, a future public defender, has advocated for clients during two bond hearings and two trials in the CJC.
Student Caseworkers Andrew Salinas '20L and Isabella Gray '20L delivered strong, creative arguments that beat the odds.
Michelle Lyon Drumbl, Clinical Professor of Law and Director of the Tax Clinic at Washington and Lee University School of Law, has published a new book that identifies shortcomings in how the United States delivers social benefits through its tax system.
3Ls Whitney Davis and Mahalia Hall were runners-up in  a regional ABA competition.
Madeline Morcelle '15L is lobbying congress, drafting bills, analyzing legislation, developing strategies to safeguard health access, and more.
Roy Abernathy and Evelyn Clark on W&L Law's LGBTQ organization.
W&L's Black Law Student Association fosters collegiality and mentorship.
Hellwig, Dean and Professor of Law, spoke on the tax plight of high-salary employees after the 2017 tax legislation.
Eight students and three faculty received Fulbright awards for 2019-2020.
The Washington and Lee School of Law Black Law Students Association moot court and mock trial teams have advanced to nationals following top finishes at the Mid-Atlantic Black Law Students Association competitions.
Professor Timothy Waters to give a talk on borders, secession, instability and violence.
What does it mean to be an ethical lawyer in today's business environment? 
Named in honor of Leslie Devan Smith Jr. '69L, the law school's first African American graduate, the new lecture series celebrates the contributions of all students from underrepresented groups.
Mary Kate Nicholson ‘20L received second place in a national student legal writing competition sponsored by the Judge John R. Brown Scholarship Foundation.
Bapi Bikkani '20L reflects on his semester working on environmental law issues in Washington, D.C.
Contributors to a recent book on child soldiers will participate in a panel discussion on Feb. 4 at 10:00 a.m. at the Law School.
3L Kat Porter will work for Administrative Law Judges at the Department of Labor in Washington, D.C.
W&L Law has announced a partnership with the Corella & Bertram F. Bonner Foundation that will provide a $10,000 annual scholarship for Bonner alumni admitted to the school.
W&L's Founders Day/ODK Convocation will take place on Jan. 21 at 5 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
Professor Claudia Haupt is the second speaker in the German Law Journal 20th anniversary series.
Law professor Mark Drumbl discussed why bombing cultural sites is considered a war crime.
Legal Defense Fund Attorney Natasha Merle will speak at 2:00pm in the Millhiser Moot Court Room on Jan. 20.
Brianna Pine, a third-year law student at W&L Law and student attorney in the Tax Clinic, won first place in a recent tax advocacy contest sponsored by the Low Income Taxpayer Clinic (LITC) grant program.
Washington and Lee law student Sophie Rogers ‘21L and her now-husband Brandyn Churchill ’14 made national news earlier this year when they joined a lawsuit challenging Virginia’s practice of asking those applying for marriage licenses to disclose their race. 
Mario Urizar ‘11L takes an immigration case before the U.S. Supreme Court Dec. 9.
W&L Law students help long-serving inmates earn parole.
Hannah Cloh is taking part in W&L Law’s residential externship in Washington, D.C., working at the Smithsonian Institution.
Greene's lecture, “#FreeTheHair: How Black Hair is Making Civil Laws Right,” will take place at 4pm on Nov. 19 at W&L Law.
Aljazeera relied on the expertise of Mark Drumbl for "explainers" on war crimes and genocide.
W&L Law students and Ed Walker '96L bring his unique brand of community-based real estate development to Buena Vista.
Her public talk is titled "Corporate Bankruptcy 101."
Law students find success at public sector job fair.
The Richmond Times-Dispatch published a commentary by Todd Peppers on public access to executions in Virginia.
 Clifford Ando’s and Winnifred Fallers Sullivan’s lectures are free and open to the public.
The event is scheduled for Nov. 14-15 at Washington and Lee School of Law.
Alex Flachsbart, ‘15L, traded corporate law for the opportunity to revitalize impoverished areas of Alabama.
Slate published a commentary by Sarah Haan on Facebook's approach to free speech and authenticity.
The Hill published a commentary by Nora Demleitner on impeachment and witness protection.
Washington and Lee University School of Law will host the 2019 Law and Literature Seminar on Oct. 27-28. 
Biskupic, CNN legal analyst, will explore the early influences on Chief Justice John Roberts and his position as the ideological middle of the Court.
The 6th Annual Lara D. Gass Symposium on Women in the Law is Friday, October 11 from 2:30-5:00 PM in the Millhiser Moot Court Room, Sydney Lewis Hall.
Slate published an article by Carliss Chatman titled "Men Get Stereotyped Too. It’s Time the Court Acknowledges It."
On Wednesday, Oct. 2, Prof. Jill Stauffer, director of the Peace, Justice and Human Rights program at Haverford College, will visit W&L Law to give a talk on the topic of child soldiers, evidence, and trial process.
Ney will speak on public service and ethics on Friday, Oct. 4 at 2:15 p.m. in the Millhiser Moot Court Room, Sydney Lewis Hall.
Scott Dittman, longtime university registrar at Washington and Lee, will step down from that post effective June 30, 2020. He will continue working at W&L as special consultant to the provost during a six-month transition period before retiring in December 2020.
The Law, Justice, and Society Program offers an interdisciplinary approach to legal studies that draws from faculty and resources in all three schools at Washington and Lee University.
The Research Handbook on Child Soldiers brings to bear a unique array of perspectives to unpack the life-cycle of youth and militarization—from recruitment, to demobilization, and return to civilian life.
Respected German scholar Kai Ambos will visit W&L Law this month to help kick off celebrations marking the German Law Journal’s 20th anniversary. 
Buchhandler-Raphael argues that the distinction made by sexual assault statutes between involuntary and voluntary intoxicated victims is unwarranted.
2L Anahita Mohtasham-Gharagozloo learned to react quickly to law and policy changes during her internship with the International Organisation to Preserve Human Rights.
3L Ashley Duckworth was exposed to a new area of the law during her summer internship with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in the Division of Corporate Finance in Washington, D.C. 
Brant Hellwig, Dean of Washington and Lee School of Law, has announced the appointment of law professor Sam Calhoun to the Robert O. Bentley Chair in Law.
The talk is free and open to the public.
Communication skills were important for 2L Khadija Dukes, who spent her summer with the Georgia Legal Service Program working on domestic violence matters.
Thanks to his first year writing courses, 2L Karlo Goronja was able to make real contributions during his summer internship with the DOJ Executive Office for Immigration Review.
During her internship in Alaska with the Office of the Attorney General, 2L Brooke Wilson learned how the right facts can make or break a case.
Jill Fraley, associate professor of law at Washington and Lee University, has received a Fulbright U.S. Scholar Grant to conduct research at Bilkent University in Ankara, Turkey during the 2019–20 academic year.
Washington and Lee law professor Doug Rendleman has been added as an Adviser a new Adviser to the American Law Institute’s (ALI) Restatement of the Law Third Torts: Remedies.
David Baluarte, associate clinical professor of law at Washington and Lee University School of Law, has been appointed associate dean for academic affairs by Dean Brant Hellwig.
Drumbl was interviewed on the BBC show "A History of Hate" on how propaganda fueled the Rwandan genocide.
In a Washington Post opinion piece published May 17, Washington and Lee law professor Carliss Chatman considers how the law will apply to a change in the definition of personhood.
The Washington and Lee University School of Law celebrated its 164th commencement on Friday, May 10, awarding 109 juris doctor degrees.
Eight law students traveled to Montgomery, Alabama with W&L Law Dean Brant Hellwig to visit the National Memorial for Peace and Justice, a haunting memorial to slavery and terror lynchings that took place in twelve Southern states.
Kevin Batteh, ’95 and ‘98L, navigates new technology to advise blockchain and cryptocurrency clients.
Washington and Lee University School of Law will welcome several new teachers to the faculty next academic year.
'Solar-powered' law student Gabriella Passidomo keeps herself and fellow students moving as key staff for the W&L Outing Club.
After graduation, Cunningham will be clerking for Judge Hugh Lawson at the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Georgia.
Wendy Greene's scholarship and advocacy has helped ban natural hair discrimination in New York City and California.
After graduation, Bennett will be working as an Assistant Public Defender with the Colorado State Public Defender.  
The Tax Clinic at the Washington and Lee University School of Law has been awarded a matching grant by the Internal Revenue Service’s Low-Income Taxpayer Clinic (LITC) Program Office. This is the twelfth straight year that the Tax Clinic has received federal dollars to support its efforts.
After graduation Novelly will be a Litigation Associate at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius in New York City. 
A new installation at Washington and Lee University School of Law celebrates the life and legacy of Leslie Devan Smith Jr., who graduated in 1969.
Morton is headed to a clerkship with the United States Court of Federal Claims, Office of Special Masters.
After graduation, McLaughlin will be working for the Colorado State Public Defender as a Deputy Public Defender.
After graduation, Shoaf will head west to work for the Colorado State Public Defender.
Drumbl commented in a NBC News story published on April 15.
Greg Stillman '74L was honored with the Outstanding Alumnus Award. Stu Nibley '75, '79L and Randall Miller '14L were recognized for volunteer work.
After graduation, Evans will clerk for Judge Steven S. Smith on the Thirty-First Judicial Circuit Court of Virginia.
Diane Gremillion '19L is headed to the Washington, DC office of Venable to work on regulatory matters.
W&L Law is perennially ranked in the top 20 for federal clerkship placement and also sends a significant number of students into state clerkships.
Washington and Lee law professor Kish Parella has been selected for the third time in three years to present at the Yale/Stanford/Harvard Junior Faculty Forum. 
Employment up again. Strong law firm and clerkship placements highlight W&L Law ABA report.
Stevenson is the executive director of the Equal Justice Initiative and author of the critically acclaimed "Just Mercy."
Mimi Miller '21 interviews Jennifer Smyrnos '12L  about practicing immigration law, a career that was inspired in part by her family heritage.
From fake news to the First Amendment, Sarah Haan's new article looks at the impact of "Post-Truthism" on the law.
On Tuesday, April 2, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit will hear oral arguments at Washington and Lee University School of Law.
Jeffries, former dean at the University of Virginia School of Law, will deliver the 17th annual Powell Lecture on Monday, March 25.
Greene's scholarship and advocacy brought about a ban on natural hair discrimination in New York City.
Third-year law students Cole Bollman and Pierce Rigney visited a class at Rockbridge County High School to discuss the federal income tax system.
So-called "Lucky Charms" beer release draws hundreds to brewery founded by W&L Law alumnus.
Judge Talevi was honored by Virginia Lawyers Weekly for pioneering court-related therapeutic services. 
Magee was a member of the Law Council and also served as an adjunct professor.
Law students Frank Bozzi and Morgan Richter bring years of experience to their positions as coaches of area swim teams.
Baluarte was quoted extensively in a Feb. 22 story in the New York Times on the cases of Hoda Muthana and Shamima Begum.
Mohamed Younis '07L, the new editor in chief of Gallup, leverages legal education to give voice to others.
Demleitner's commentary was published Feb. 19 in the Virginia Pilot.
Will’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Lowering the Temperature, and the Stakes, of Politics.” 
The two-day event focused on ethics and social justice issues.
The team of Angelique Rogers and Junior Ndlovu will represent W&L Law at the National Competition in Little Rock next month.
The 2018-2019 Lara D. Gass Symposium will feature a diverse collection of leading scholars and experts on corporate law to explore the past, present, and future of social and environmental shareholder activism.
Marc Nichols ‘98L oversees legal functions at Saab to assure safety of domestic travelers and the military.
Lauren Morina stays grounded and connected to the community through service at hospice care and the food pantry.
W&L’s DC Externship Program enables students like myself not to have to make that fretful decision-- urban or rural, academic or experiential. I got the best of both words, and will be a more effective lawyer because of it.
The leadership organization also presented the James G. Leyburn Award to Srimayi B. “Tinni” Sen.
Even if I had taken a full course load of patent classes, I would not have gained as much practical knowledge of patent law as I did in Judge Reyna’s chambers.
This past Fall semester, a team of W&L Law students in the Criminal Tribunal Practicum class were given the unique opportunity to review and suggest legislative amendments to Ethiopia’s Anti-terrorism Proclamation.
Working full time and living in DC granted me the opportunity to immerse myself in the work I was assigned and form a network of securities law professionals.
Three Washington and Lee alumnae and lawyers, two from the law school and one from the college, have been recognized for their work in the legal field of mergers and acquisitions.
Baluarte's commentary was published in November by openDemocracy.
Roger L. Gregory, Chief Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, will deliver a lecture at W&L Law in conjunction with the University’s multi-day observance of Martin Luther King’s birthday.
W&L law students provide legal assistance at the border.
Washington and Lee law school dean Brant Hellwig has announced the appointment of Carliss Chatman to the permanent faculty, effective next semester.
A busy fall season of intra-school moot court events concluded this week with the finals of the Mock Trial competition.
Cushman, the Robert C. Taylor Professor at the University of Virginia, will deliver at talk titled “George B. McClellan, Robert E. Lee, and the Laws of War before the Lieber Code.”
The historic institutions will temporarily exchange iconic portraits of George Washington, which will go on public view in mid-December.
Kathy McLaughlin '19L spent her summer in the Colorado State Public Defender office.
Amy Conant Hoang ‘13L and Krystal Swendsboe ‘15L were recognized for their efforts in pro bono work.
Simpson is Chair of Public International Law at the London School of Economics and a Senior Fellow at the Institute for International Law and Justice at NYU Law.
This month, W&L Law hosted an round-table discussion on post-conflict justice.
The lecture, titled “Comparative Law’s Taxonomy Problem," is scheduled for Thursday, November 1 at 5:30 p.m. in Classroom A.
On Friday, November 2, the Washington and Lee Journal of Civil Rights and Social Justice will host its annual symposium in the Millhiser Moot Court Room, Sydney Lewis Hall.
Peter Strasser '79L brings a wealth of government and international experience to his new position as U.S. Attorney.
The U.S. Court of Appeals has ruled in favor of a client represented by the Black Lung Clinic at W&L Law.
Shapiro is the inaugural recipient of the Elliott Milstein Award for Professional Excellence from American University Washington College of Law
Dean Brant Hellwig has announced the appointment of Alex Zhang as Assistant Dean for Legal Information Services and Director of the Law Library at Washington and Lee School of Law.
Washington and Lee law professor Nora Demleitner commented extensively in a Public Radio International story on the right to vote for convicted felons.
The Board has decided to rename two buildings and endorse two changes in Lee Chapel.
The 5th Annual Lara D. Gass Symposium on Women in the Law is Friday, October 12 from 2:30-5:00 PM in the Millhiser Moot Court Room, Sydney Lewis Hall.
Payne joined the W&L Board of Trustees on October 5.
The lecture, titled "Global Intersectionality and Women’s Human Rights," is scheduled for Wednesday, October 17 at 4 p.m. in the Millhiser Moot Court Room 
O’Neil’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled, “How Big Data Promotes Inequality and Threatens Democracy.” 
Tang is a partner in minority-owned executive search firm Bridge Partners where she works to increase diversity in executive positions and on company boards.
Haan is one of 15 women to provide commentary for a special online symposium commemorating the 200th issue of First Amendment News.
If you are a younger member of our alumni community and wondering how you can get involved with the law school, our Young Alumni Council, or YAC, is the answer.
Balen Essak '20 interviews Maisie Osteen '14L about her experiences with the Shepherd Program and as an assistant public defender.
In his talk, which is free and open to the public, Mounk will discuss the rise of populism around the world.
The lecture will take place Thursday, Oct 11 at 4:00 p.m. in the Millhiser Moot Court Room, Sydney Lewis Hall on the campus of Washington and Lee.
The panel discussion, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Who Is America?! A Response to Michael Anton’s Constitution Day Lecture.”
Grant will serve as board president of Legal Aid Society of Middle Tennessee and the Cumberlands, the state’s largest nonprofit law firm.
Kristen Mynes '19L spent her summer in Germany with Jones Day, getting a new perspective on the law and her career plans.
Channing Martin '75, '79 and Marie Washington '03L have been named to the 2018 class of Leaders in the Law by Virginia Lawyers Weekly.
As a summer associate with Epstein Becker & Green in New York City, John Milani '20L learned how to manage expectations in a fast-paced corporate law environment.
Blair Barker '20L split her summer between a small firm in Chattanooga and the U.S. Attorney’s Office in D.C. 
Savoy Magazine’s list of Most Influential Black Lawyers of 2018 includes Kevin Clunis '93L, Ashley Taylor '93L and James Williams '98L
Carrie Macon '20L worked with the Guardian ad Litem education team at the Children's Law Center in Washington, DC this summer.
David Thompson '19L spent the summer at the Standards of Conduct Office, the senior ethics office for the Department of Defense.
Kate Murphy '20L spent her summer on both sides of the bench, working for the Supreme Court of Virginia and the U.S. Attorney's Office.
Rashanna Butler '20L split her summer between public defender offices in Lexington and Roanoke.
Michael Stinnett-Kassoff '19L spent the summer in New York with Department of Justice Antitrust Division
Georgi Pisano-Goetz ‘20L spent her summer at San Francisco-based voting rights group.
Emily Kendall '20L researched the impact of extractive mining practices on human rights and economic development.
The award recognizes a lawyer under the age of 36 who has demonstrated an overwhelming commitment to public service, service to the bar and exceptional leadership.
A group of W&L faculty, led by Bob Danforth, have helped develop one of Virginia's best elementary school chess programs.
Lenfest, one of the university’s most generous supporters, died Aug. 5, 2018.
Mark Rush, Waxberg Professor of Politics and Law at W&L, has recently discussed constitutional amendments, 3D-printed guns and electoral maps.
Cambridge University Press and the editorial board of the German Law Journal are pleased to announce that they will partner in the publication of the journal from 2019.
The Journal of Civil Rights and Social Justice at Washington and Lee School of Law has issued an announcement regarding a call for submissions.
The A. Paul Knight Internship Program in Conservation, named in memory of a late Washington and Lee student, turns 30 this year. It has provided internships to 132 students and is still going strong.
Washington and Lee law graduates Chris Wolf ‘80L and Joe Brown ‘68L have been honored for their work by the Anti-Defamation League (ADL).
The Tax Clinic at the Washington and Lee University School of Law has been awarded a matching grant from the Internal Revenue Service’s Low-Income Taxpayer Clinic program (LITC).
The Washington and Lee University School of Law celebrated its 163rd commencement on Saturday, May 5, awarding 114 juris doctor degrees.
The Virginia State Bar has named Washington and Lee University law student Charu Kulkarni, a member of the Law Class of 2018, as the recipient of the Oliver White Hill Law Student Pro Bono Award.
Goldman is the first W&L alumnus to lead one of Virginia's four regional capital defense offices.
After graduation, Fiorella will work for the York, Pennsylvania Immigration Court as part of the Department of Justice Honors Program.   
After graduation, Sara Lamneck will join the U.S. Army as a JAG officer.
Parker Denaco '68L, Howard Wall '83L, and Matney Rolfe '14L were honored for their contributions to the law school.
Peter Askin will clerk for the Supreme Court of Virginia after graduation.
After graduation, John Fluharty '18L is headed to London to work as an associate in Allen & Overy’s International Capital Markets practice group.
Martha Vazquez is headed to Washington, DC to join the law firm Wiley Rein.
This year's class focused on investigating the divorce process in Tanzania that often leaves women in poverty.
Washington and Lee University School of Law has released a report on employment rates for its class of 2017.
3L Luisa Hernandez argued an appeal of a Black Lung Case, moving one step closer to her life-long dream of becoming a lawyer.
A W&L fixture for more than 40 years, Prof. Mark Grunewald's teaches his final class. 
For those who remember W&L Law alumnus Sam Petsonk '13L, they will not be surprised by the recent feature in WV Living detailing his work for the homeless population of Charleston.
A group of W&L Law students traveled to Germany over spring break for an intensive week-long exploration of German law and legal culture.
From corporate big-law to outdoors gear connoisseurs, Ferrell & Koral Alman (‘12L) demonstrate the versatility of a W&L legal education. 
Shaun Bennett '18L earned second place in the Association of Securities and Exchange Commission Alumni’s (ASECA) Writing Competition.
Washington and Lee second-year law students Lauren Bond and Daniele San Roman recently competed in Atlanta at the Giles Sutherland Rich Moot Court Competition, the leading oral and written advocacy competition for patent law.
The W&L Law team of Joseph Isenberg ‘19L and Danielle Phillips ‘18L was named National Champion, and Phillips Best Oral Advocate, at the competition.
After graduation, Chris Losito will work as a litigation associate in the Financial Institutions group at Norton Rose Fulbright in New York.
Robert Danforth, John Lucian Smith, Jr. Memorial Term Professor of Law, will deliver a lecture on April 5  in honor of his professorship.
Drumbl was in Beirut at the invitation of the Special Tribunal for Lebanon, established by the UN to investigate the assassination of Rafik Hariri.
Law Commencement is scheduled for Saturday, May 5 beginning at 10 a.m.
Julia Penny Clark, a partner at the law firm Bredhoff & Kaiser and former clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Lewis Powell, will deliver the sixteenth annual Lewis F. Powell, Jr. Distinguished Lecture. 
Joshua Fairfield, William Donald Bain Family Professor of Law, will give a talk titled “Can Law Keep Up?” on March 29 in honor of his professorship.
Demleitner's opinion piece appeared in the Richmond Times-Dispatch.
Mark Drumbl, Class of 1975 Alumni Professor at Washington and Lee University School of Law, is involved in the legal content of a new book launched last month at the United Nations.
Austin Brown '13L shares the real secret to success as a player-agent with Creative Artists Agency.
The Virginia Festival of the Book, the long-running literary celebration produced by the Virginia Foundation for the Humanities, has announced this year’s line-up, and a book edited by Washington and Lee law professor Russell Miller is among the featured works.
2Ls Bethny Barrett and Lauren Bennett spent their 1L summers in public interest positions funded by the Shepherd Program.
Dowin Coffy is a registered nurse whose desire to understand fully the healthcare system brought him to W&L Law.
The team of Angelique Rogers and Junior Ndlovu will represent W&L Law at the National Competition in Brooklyn next month.
3Ls Kendall Manning and Aileen Almonte, student attorneys in the Immigrant Rights Clinic, provide a snapshot into a typical week working in the clinic.
The three authors of “We Are Charleston” will talk on Feb. 15 at 6:00 p.m. in Stackhouse Theatre, Elrod Commons. It is free and open to the public.
Mary Ann Mancini, a partner at Loeb & Loeb in Washington, DC and an expert in Trusts and Estates, has joined Washington and Lee School of Law as the Millhiser Professor of Practice for the 2018 spring semester.
Parks is the eighth speaker in the 2017–18 Equality and Difference series, sponsored by the W&L's Mudd Center for Ethics.
The 2017-2018 Lara D. Gass Symposium will feature a diverse collection of leading scholars and experts on immigration law to discuss emergent legal issues regarding the implementation of the Trump Administration’s policies.
Kirkland, who joined W&L in 1997, has practiced education law and employment law for 25 years.
Law students taking part in the school’s Criminal Tribunal practicum hope that their work for client Bekele Gerba, will lead to his freedom.
Allen’s speech is titled: “Why Hide Anything?” She is the fifth speaker in the year-long Questioning Intimacy series.
The title of his talk is “Equality and the Fourth Amendment.”
The national leadership honor society will welcome four honorary and 35 student initiates.
An externship in DC gave Ali Hakusui '18L a chance to do something different, and find new meaning in the law.
Mark Dewyea '18L used the W&L alumni network to find a unique placement with the government affairs and legal departments at Rolls Royce in DC.
Dew’s speech, titled "The Making, and Unmaking, of a Racist," will precede the ODK induction.
Washington and Lee University School of Law will host several events as part of the University’s multi-day observance of Martin Luther King’s birthday.
The daughter of the late Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. will give the keynote address during W&L's annual multi-day observance of King’s birthday.
Washington and Lee law student Hollie Webb ‘18L offered her experience representing underage immigrants for a recent media report on conditions at a regional juvenile detention center.
Washington and Lee law professor Thomas H. Speedy Rice was one of six individuals and organizations honored at the International Anti-Corruption Excellence Awards in Geneva.
Law professor Josh Fairfield discusses digital ownership on Quartz.com.
Law professors Lyman Johnson and David Millon have been honored by the AALS Section on Business Associations Outstanding Mentor Award for their work with younger scholars in the field of corporate law.
Tax Clinic cases rarely go to trial, but this semester, for only second time in the Clinic's history, a student argued a case before the U.S. Tax Court.
Community Grants Committee has made 19 grants totaling $30,760 to non-profit organizations in Lexington and Rockbridge County.
Law professor Josh Fairfield discussed the implications of a new blockchain app on nasdaq.com.
Emily Kendall was headed to law school in California. Then she visited W&L Law.
Alumni connections are a big reason why Rashanna Butler decided to attend W&L Law.
Austin Scieszinski likes how the town of Lexington compliments the personal kind of legal education his is getting.
For 3L Tommy Bishop, the outdoor activities are one of the best things about going to law school at W&L.
Coming from New York, Madison Peace wasn't sure if a small law school was for her, but at W&L Law, the great access to professors has made the difference.
The campus visit was big part of the law school decision for Andrew Salinas.
Sarah Van Horn was impressed by W&L Law's focus on outcomes, but there were other benefits she saw in joining the community.
Joe Barton explains why the Honor System at W&L Law was important in his decision to attend.
1L Dami Lawal shares his thoughts about how to choose a law school and why W&L Law was right for him.
1L Megan Williams Explains What Factors Led Her to Choose W&L Law
An article from Law.com features comments from Washington and Lee University law students Lauren Morina '20L and Michael Stinnett-Kassoff '19L about the path from military service to law school.
Hernandez Stroud, a visiting assistant professor at Washington and Lee University School of Law and a 2015 law graduate, has landed on Forbes' 2018 list of the top 30 Under 30 in Law & Policy.
Religious Values and Public Policy:  Does the Separation of Church and State Also Require  Separating Religion from Politics?
W&L Law Tax Clinic students Gabrielle Ongies, Roland Hartung, and Javier Puga presented at the Annual Statewide Legal Aid Conference.
W&L Law professors Joshua Fairfield and Jilll Fraley have been awarded the Lewis Prize for Excellence in Legal Scholarship.
Brian C. Murchison, the Charles S. Rowe Professor of Law at Washington and Lee University, will be the new Roger Mudd Professor of Ethics and director of the Mudd Center for Ethics, beginning July 1, 2018. He succeeds Angela Smith, who was named the Mudd Center’s inaugural director in 2013 and is returning to her full-time faculty role as professor of philosophy.
On Friday, October 27, twenty 1Ls joined 2Ls and 3Ls interviewing in Washington, D.C. at Equal Justice Works (EJW), the largest legal public sector career fair in the country. 
Prof. Peppers will give a talk about his book, “A Courageous Fool:  Marie Deans and Her Struggle against the Death Penalty,” on Wednesday, Nov. 1 at 4:00 p.m. in Classroom B, Sydney Lewis Hall.
“Taking the Pulse: Understanding the Complexities of Healthcare Law” will occur Friday, November 10 in the Millhiser Moot Court Room, Sydney Lewis Hall.
Washington and Lee University School of Law will host the 2017 Law and Literature Seminar on Oct. 27-28.
After two rounds of arguments and a lengthy deliberation, judges of the annual appellate advocacy competition awarded first place to Chase Cobb ‘19L and second place went to Patrick Hanlon ‘19L.
Rogowski joined the W&L Board of Trustees on October 20.
Shapiro was honored by the Capital Area Immigrants’ Rights Coalition for pro bono work in the immigration field.
Since retiring from W&L, Professor Bill Geimer has continued his work in support of peace and nonviolent conflict resolution.
Sarah Haan, associate professor of law at Washington and Lee, co-authored an opinion piece in U.S. News.
Josh Fairfield’s piece, “The ‘internet of things’ is sending us back to the Middle Ages,” was recently published on The Conversation.
2L Caitlin Peterson spent her summer with the Circuit Court and Commonwealth’s Attorney Office in Portsmouth.
Prof. Drumbl drew from his research into child soldiers to deliver a talk titled "Tragic Perpetrators and Imperfect Victims".
This month, the Women Law Students Organization at Washington and Lee University School of Law will host the 4th Annual Lara D. Gass Symposium on Women in the Law, exploring the theme “Better Together: Exploring Gender Diversity.”
Both speakers have extensive experience as special investigators in high profile investigations involving both public and private sector work.
As pro bono counsel, Doyle develops national and international pro bono projects focused on assisting immigrants, promoting women’s rights and combating domestic violence and human trafficking.
Over the course of two summers, 3L Mark Zhuang has been able to see the ins and outs of the courtroom experience in both civil and criminal cases.
2L Maya Ginga spent her summer working for the Kraft family businesses, including the New England Patriots, the New England Revolution, Rand-Whitney Containerboard, and International Forest Products.
2L Chris Henry got great experience in construction law and real estate development this summer with two placements in Atlanta.
David Thompson '19L spent most of his summer working for Physicians for Human Rights–Israel, using international law to advocate for human rights standards.
Daniele San Roman '19L work on corporate and criminal law as a summer clerk for the Hon. Vice Chancellor Slights at the Delaware Court of Chancery and for the Hon. Judge Parkins at Delaware Superior Court.
Prof. Brophy will discuss ideas about law and constitutionalism at Washington College—and in Lexington more generally — in the thirty years leading into Civil War.
Washington and Lee University inaugurated William C. Dudley as the university’s 27th president.
Garrett will speak on the decline of the death penalty int the U.S. and how his research on the issue could lead to a catalyst for criminal justice reform.
Prof. David Baluarte, along with W&L law students, is working to help DACA beneficiaries and their families understand the immediate impact of the potential end of the program.
W&L will host a panel discussion on “The Liberal Arts and the Professions” as part of President Dudley's inauguration.
Washington and Lee is pleased to welcome Sarah Haan, Kristin Johnson and Hernandez Stroud to the law faculty this year.
2L Alexis Narducci used on-campus interviews and alumni connections to build a full summer of legal employment experiences.
A USAID program brought a team of Ukrainian policy-makers and legal educators to W&L Law to explore the U.S. legal system.
Danielle Allen, James Bryant Conant University Professor at Harvard University and director of Harvard’s Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics, will address W&L's 2017 Fall Convocation.
Melina Bell discusses “2017’s Best & Worst States for Women’s Equality in a recent WalletHub article.
As ABA Delegate of Diversity and Inclusion, Peterson will ensure that the backgrounds and viewpoints of all law students are brought to the attention of the ABA.
Catch up wth Ryan Decker '09L, from post graduate law fellow in Liberia to payments counsel for Airbnb.
As Director, Seaman will oversee funding summer research projects for faculty, conferences and symposia organized at the Law School, and the visiting scholars workshop series.
In “Owned: Property, Privacy and the New Digital Serfdom,” Prof. Joshua Fairfield examines how and why traditional property ownership is fading online and how we have become serfs to our digital lords.
The West Virginia Bar Foundation has inducted W&L alumnus Robby Aliff as one of its Fellows for exemplary service as an officer of the law.
The Justices decided Sessions v. Morales-Santana 8-0 in favor of the defendant, and their opinion directly referenced the brief coauthored by Baluarte.
The Tax Clinic at the Washington and Lee University School of Law has been awarded a matching grant from the Internal Revenue Service's Low-Income Taxpayer Clinic program (LITC). This is the tenth straight year that the Tax Clinic has received federal dollars to support its efforts.
John D. Klinedinst, Founder and CEO of Klinedinst PC, was named winner at 10th Annual Most Admired CEO Awards by the San Diego Business Journal.
Law students David Thompson and Michael Stinnett-Kassoff have been named co-directors for law admissions for Service 2 School, a non-profit organization that provides educational guidance and networking opportunities for U.S. military service members and veterans.
Joelle Phillips '95L, president of AT&T Tennessee, talks about her journey from the stage to law school and beyond to become head of a 6000-person division of the telecom giant.
W&L's undergraduate mock trial team is now ranked 16th nationally.
Washington and Lee School of Law has announced the appointment of four law school faculty to chaired professorships. The appointments take effect July 1.
Prof. Kish Parella placed her article “Reputational Regulation” in the Duke Law Journal and was invited to present the paper at the prestigious Stanford/Harvard/Yale Junior Faculty Forum.
After graduation, Lizzie will be a litigation associate at Sullivan & Cromwell’s New York City Office.
The Washington and Lee University School of Law celebrated its 162nd commencement on Saturday, May 6, awarding 99 juris doctor degrees.
Get all the details for the events surrounding the 162nd commencement ceremony for the Washington and Lee University School of Law.
After graduation, Christian will enter the JAG Corps for the United States Air Force.
After graduation, Jenna will for K&L Gates in the firms Washington, DC office.
Robert M. Couch ’78, ‘82L received the Outstanding Law Alumnus award and Amy King Condara '02L received the 2017 Volunteer of the Year Award.
According to the report, 10 months after graduation 84 percent of the class of 2016 has secured a full-time job that either requires bar passage or for which a J.D. degree is an advantage.
After graduation, Carl will be working for Glankler Brown back home in Memphis, Tennessee.
Following graduation, Jess will be clerking for U.S. District Judge Rosanna Peterson in the Eastern District of Washington.
After graduation, Tamra will be working in the litigation department of Miller & Martin’s Chattanooga office.
After graduation, Mitch will serve as a judicial clerk for the Honorable Robert J. Humphreys of the Court of Appeals of Virginia.
Hill, a former judge and prosecutor and currently a partner in the Polsinelli firm in Atlanta, will deliver remarks during W&L Law's graduation on May 6.
U.S. Sen. Mark Warner will speak on Thursday, April 13 from 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater.
After graduation, Andrea will be working for the Sierra Club as a Legal Fellow in Washington, DC.
The QEP is an exciting and important part of Washington and Lee University’s accreditation process by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.
In addition to the team victory, law student Tamra Harris was named best oralist. The team won a $14,000 scholarship for the school.
Mr. Couch clerked for Justice Powell and also served as General Counsel for the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Twenty-five years ago, on April 2-4, 1992, marked the dedication of the Lewis F. Powell Jr. Archives, and of the addition to the law building known as the Powell Wing.
After graduation, McNair will work at the Washington, D.C. office of K&L Gates doing regulatory or enforcement work.
Five W&L faculty members are featured in a new book from Cambridge Press about the NSA surveillance scandal that grew out of Edward Snowden’s now infamous disclosures.
Tammi M. Hellwig has been named the director of Community-Based Learning at Washington and Lee University. W&L Provost Marc Conner announced the appointment, which is effective July 1.
After graduation, Chi will be working for Kirkland and Ellis, in their Houston, TX office, doing primarily private equity and capital markets work.
After graduation, Clark will join the Charleston, WV office of Spilman, Thomas, and Battle, PLLC, doing corporate transactional and litigation defense work.
March 30 event will explore how big data tools can be used to isolate, analyze, and discriminate against individuals based on race, gender, religion, health status, and other data characteristics.
Klein will speak at Washington and Lee University School of Law this month to open the Lawyers without Rights exhibit visiting the school through mid-April.
James E. Moliterno has been named the recipient of the William R. Rakes Leadership in Education Award from the Virginia State Bar Section on the Education of Lawyers in Virginia.
Jeffrey Rosen, president and CEO of the National Constitution Center and professor of law at George Washington University will speak on “The Curse of Bigness: What Would Brandeis Say about Privacy in the Age of Google and Facebook.” 
Lee Levine, renowned media lawyer and Supreme Court advocate, will visit W&L Law this month to speak on media law issues.
The exhibit provides a portrait of the fate of Jewish lawyers in Germany under the Third Reich and during the Holocaust.
Marlon West, head of effects animation at Walt Disney Animation Studios, will give the keynote address for the 2017 SSA conference, to be held March 16 and 17.
The Washington and Lee Law Review held its annual celebration of student scholarship, honoring the work of Daniel Martin '17L and Leanna Minix '17L.
The two-day event will feature a film screening of "Bridge of Spies" and a panel discussion with lawyers who have represented notorious clients.
Chauncey Belknap, a law clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, is the subject of a two-year research project by law students Lizzy Williams '17L and Jess Winn '17L.
The W&L Law team of Tejkaran Bains '17L and Caitlin Peterson '19L placed second in the NBLSA regional moot court competition, earning a spot in nationals next month in Houston.
This opinion piece by Chris Seaman, Associate Professor of Law at Washington and Lee, appeared in the Roanoke Times on February 19, 2017.
W&L will host a Public Interest Law Careers Panel on Feb. 28 at 7:15 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater.
Third-year law student Stacey LaRiviere got the unique chance to try a jury trial during her externship with the Commonwealth Attorney's Office of Roanoke City.
Washington and Lee University has named Marc C. Conner as provost. Conner, the Jo M. and James M. Ballengee Professor of English, has been serving as W&L’s interim provost since January 2016.
Christopher Bruner, the William Donald Bain Family Professor of Corporate Law at W&L, delivered the keynote address at a conference titled “International Financial Services and Small States” on January 30, 2017.
Dr. Francisco Fiallos, Nicaragua's former Ambassador and Minister of Foreign Affairs, will present on international law and global issues.
Ginsburg’s visit was a year in the making and came 20 years after she penned the majority opinion in United States v. Virginia, the landmark case that struck down VMI’s male-only admissions policy.
Sebghatullah Ebrahimi was one of two Afghan law students who came to W&L Law in 2009 to complete a Masters in U.S. Law degree. Now he is back in the U.S. working for an international humanitarian organization.
 Maureen Edobor, a 3L from Dallas, is serving this year as attorney general for the National Black Law Students Association.
The public event will be at VMI's Cameron Hall.  It is free, with seating available on a first come, first served basis. The events at W&L are closed to the public and to the media.
Alpha Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, the national leadership honor society, will welcome four honorary and 39 student initiates at Washington and Lee University’s annual Founders Day/ODK Convocation on Jan. 19 at 5 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
Washington and Lee University School of Law will observe Martin Luther King Jr. Day with a panel discussion examining voting rights.
Diane Nash, peace activist and pioneer of the Civil Rights Movement, will be the featured keynote speaker during Washington and Lee University’s annual multi-day observance of King’s birthday, "Celebrating the Life and Legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr."
Jonathan Holloway, historian of post-emancipation American history and black intellectualism and dean of Yale College, will be the featured speaker at Washington and Lee University’s Founders Day/Omicron Delta Kappa Convocation.
3L Chi Ewusi spent the summer working for the Pillsbury law firm in their Washington, D.C. office.
Third year law students Max Gottlieb, Bo Mahr and Jenna Lorence will represent W&L Law at the national finals of the NYC Bar Moot Court Competition.
The students are participating in an innovative practice-based course that engages them in research and analysis of international acts pertaining to good governance and corruption.
3L Andrea Marshall interned with the EPA while participating in W&L Law's Program in DC, a one-semester, residential program that gives W&L students practice experience in the nation's capital.
The guides help with a variety of tax issues, including determining filing status and information about claiming children as dependents.
Immigrant Rights Clinic director David Baluarte will present at a hearing of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights to discuss the growth of asylum-free zones.
As the Secular Society Women’s Rights Legal Fellow for the ACLU of Virginia, Gail Deady '11L works on issues related to gender equality, reproductive rights and LGBT discrimination.
Roddy Flynn ’12L crafts strategy and educates Congress as executive director of the U.S. House of Representatives’ LGBT Caucus
A new book by Washington and Lee law professor Christopher Bruner explores how “offshore” financial markets emerged and rose to prominence.
The W&L Law team of Thomas Griffin ‘18L and Stephen Edwards ‘18L will compete at the ABA National Negotiations Competition in February.
Washington and Lee faculty participated in a panel discussion on Thursday, Nov. 17, discussing the 2016 election from a variety of perspectives.
Robert J. Grey Jr. was honored by the organization's Forum on Construction Law for his "extraordinary leadership and lifetime of commitment to moving the meter on diversity and inclusion."
Peter Wittig, German Ambassador to the U.S., will speak on “German Policy Toward the European Refugee Crisis” at W&L's Institute for Honor Symposium.
Now in its 24th year, the seminar on Oct. 14-15 will focus on the Shakespeare classic “King Lear.”
The Lara D. Gass Symposium will focus this year on corporate law and governance, honoring the scholarship of two of the law school’s longest-serving faculty members, Lyman Johnson and David Millon.
The Lara D. Gass Symposium will focus this year on corporate law and governance, honoring the scholarship of two of the law school’s longest-serving faculty members, Lyman Johnson and David Millon.
Tyler Sanderson '18L, a graduate of Centre College from Henrico, Virginia, spent the summer working for the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on the Judiciary in Washington, D.C.
Brian Wagoner '18L, a graduate of UNC-Chapel Hill from Burlington, NC, worked this summer for the USAID Governance for Inclusive Growth Program in Hanoi, Vietnam.
Matt Donahue '18L, a graduate of George Washington University from Benicia, CA, worked this past summer in the Office of the General Counsel at Oakland Unified School District in Oakland, CA.
Austin Woodside '18L is a graduate of the University of Tennessee at Knoxville. He spent the summer working for the International Legal Foundation in Nepal.
Lizzy Williams, a 3L from Austin, Texas, graduated from Smith College with a B.A. in History and a Certificate in International Relations. Lizzy is Co-President of the Women's Law Students Organization, a Burks Scholar, a Student Attorney for the Criminal Justice Clinic, a Lead Articles Editor on the German Law Journal, and a Research Assistant for Professor Todd Peppers.
Kit Thomas '18L spent her summer at the Louisiana Capital Assistance Center, a non-profit trial level death penalty organization located in New Orleans, Louisiana. She is a graduate of Centre College and is interested in a career in capital defense and criminal justice.
Bo Mahr '17L spent the summer working for the White House Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) in the Office of the General Counsel as a Law Clerk. At W&L Law, Bo serves as vice-chair of the Moot Court Executive Board.
Ashley Slisz is from Williamsville, New York and graduated from Boston University with a degree in International Relations. At Washington and Lee she is the 2L Vice-President of the Student Bar Association and a staffwriter on the  Washington and Lee Law Review.
Jessica Winn is originally from Newberg, Oregon and studied Political Science at Carnegie Mellon University. At Washington and Lee, she is involved in Law Review, German Law Journal, Law Ambassadors, WLSO, ACS, and PILSA.
Sherry Fox, an attorney with ThompsonMcMullan, has been named to the 2016 class of Leaders in the Law by Virginia Lawyers Weekly.
Highlights of the series include the Oct. 7 keynote address by Oxford professor David Miller, author of "Strangers in our Midst."
The 3rd Annual Lara D. Gass Symposium on Women in the Law is scheduled for Friday, September 23 and will focus on women in politics.
Warren, who also serves as the director of the Society's American Revolution Institute, will lecture on "The American Revolution and National Identity.”
On Thursday, Sept. 15, Ivan Fong, general counsel of 3M, will discuss his career as a general counsel in a talk titled “Off the Record: Life as Outside, Government, and Inside Counsel.”
 Looking for older stories? See the complete The School of Law archive.