These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university.
The weekend’s seminar will feature Tess Gunty discussing her debut novel, “The Rabbit Hutch.”
Dennie will present her research on “Southern Black Feminisms at the Turn of the Century” March 20 in the Watson Galleries. 
The assistant professor of history will hold her talk on Feb. 7 at noon in the Harte Center Gallery.
The upcoming screening is the second installment in the DeLaney Center’s ongoing film series and will be shown on Thursday, Jan. 18 at 5 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater.
An award of $9,500 will support the center’s Screen to Square film series.
This year’s first film, “Southern Hoops: A History of SEC Basketball,” will be shown Nov. 4 in Stackhouse Theater.
Tahri Phillips ’23 will be pursuing a master’s degree at the University of Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar.
The DeLaney Center’s latest research project connects current students with a rich legacy.
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join conversations with W&L's expert faculty about their teaching, research and passion projects.
Wingard Cunningham joins W&L from College of Wooster, where she is the Mildred Foss Thompson Professor of English and dean for faculty development.
The upcoming screening is the second installment in the DeLaney Center's ongoing film series.
Diego Millan’s recent article analyzes the centrality of jokes in the Chester Himes book “If He Hollers Let Him Go.”
Center announces new personnel, supports research opportunities and introduces programs for the campus community.
The first From Screen to Square event will take place on Monday, Nov. 7.
Students in Michael and Lena Hill’s Spring Term course are discovering what inspired writers of past generations.
The Elmes Pathfinder Prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
Building on discussions from last year’s series, Africana Studies presents “The Aftermath of Black Protest."
In 1971, Black students founded the Student Association for Black Unity, launching a 50-year tradition of advocacy on campus.
Organizations across the Lexington and Rockbridge County areas have planned a Juneteenth event that will include an art show, live music, a free raffle and more. 
The series will end the academic year with a roundtable discussion on May 19 at 6 p.m. titled "The Black Freedom Struggle: Verdicts on Advocacy."
The Feb. 24 online lecture, titled “Black Entrepreneurs: Where Does Money Fit into Protest?,” will examine capitalism as a part of the Black freedom-fighting arsenal.
W&L presents a monthlong schedule of events celebrating Black History Month.
The Student Association for Black Unity will hold the online event, which is free and open to the public to watch online.
The series will present two events, "Looking at Blackness" and "Legislative Leverage: Democratic Processes as Activism,” in late January.
During his career at W&L, DeLaney brought his passion for justice and inclusion to the classroom and to his scholarship.
In the interview, Hill discusses her new appointment as W&L provost, effective July 1, 2021.
Enuma Anekwe-Desince '22 has found her niche at Washington and Lee University through her involvement in the Advanced Immersion and Mentoring Program, leadership roles in student organizations, and work as a research assistant in the sociology and psychology departments.
The panel discussion, titled "Antiracism, White Activists, and Black Freedom," is free and open to the public to watch virtually.
Next year, he will serve as president of the association, which supports African writers around the world.
The Africana Studies Program at W&L, in partnership with the Rupert H. Johnson Jr. Program in Leadership and Integrity, will host a series of events focused on activism and Black life. It kicks off Aug. 26 with a panel discussion featuring three W&L faculty members.
Franks, a professor of law at the University of Miami School of Law, will discuss the topic of her 2019 book, “The Cult of the Constitution: Our Deadly Devotion to Guns and Free Speech.”
Five professors from Washington and Lee University held an online panel offering “Perspectives on Black Protest: Comprehending the Current Crisis.”
In his latest book, Morel explores how Lincoln’s most vital ideas are traced back to the country’s founders.
In the discussion, Morel explains why Juneteenth is a uniquely American holiday.
Hill appeared on a special episode entitled "Stronger Together – a Conversation About Racism."
Jhade Jordan ’21 pays tribute to her mentor Susan Swazy '90.
Campbell's talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled "The Giants of Africa: What's Next for South Africa and Nigeria?"
The popular pre-orientation program for first-year students at Washington and Lee University this year added a trip dedicated to black history and the civil rights movement. 
The episode aired on “The Great Books” podcast series.
The focus will be the "1619 Project" and the U.S. Constitution.
Conner is provost and the Jo M. and James Ballengee Professor of English at Washington and Lee University. 
The screening, which is free and open to the public, will advance the Lexington conference of the South Sudanese Diaspora Network for Reconciliation and Peace (SSDNRP). 
Alexander’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “The Untold Story of Africa's Migrant and Refugee Crisis."
This year's observance of MLK day will comprise a variety of events, including a keynote address by the Rev. William Barber II.
Community and social support form the heart of W&L's newest theme house.
Jobarteh is the first female virtuoso player of the kora, a 21-string African harp. 
Appiah will speak on “The Ethics of Identity: The Injuries of Class.” 
Mugo will attend the Public Policy and International Affairs Junior Summer Institute at the Heinz College at Carnegie Mellon.
Her talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “An Untold Story of Black Intellectuals and Egyptology.”
Washington and Lee's Special Collections contains a rare volume of poetry by Wheatley, the first published African-American poet. 
The university's Office of Diversity and Inclusion presents a month-long schedule of events, including film screenings, lectures and discussions. 
After spending Spring Term in Ethiopia, Jack Kaelin '19 is in Austin, Texas, helping refugees find a place to call home. 
Joelle Simeu '20 is working this summer on "The Politics and Poetics of Space in the Works of Martin Luther King Jr. and Leopold Senghor," a project with Professor Mohamed Kamara.
T.J. Tallie, assistant professor of African history, talked to Forbes about the cultural appropriation of recipes.
In February and early March, performances, panel discussions, film screenings and lectures put the focus on black history and the black experience at Washington and Lee.
Washington and Lee University has named Marc C. Conner as provost. Conner, the Jo M. and James M. Ballengee Professor of English, has been serving as W&L’s interim provost since January 2016.
Professor Tim Diette testified before the Canadian House of Commons’ Standing Committee on Human Resources, Skills and Social Development and the Status of Persons with Disabilities.
Associate Professor of History.
Seniors Teddy Corcoran and Stephanie Foster get students from around the country talking about ethics.
"All around me, I was exposed to ideas and opinions I had not considered before."
ODK National Leader of the Year Paqui Toscano talks about his approach to leadership.
Amber Cooper '12 brings her passion for creativity and communications to her marketing career.
"W&L has given me the resources and experiences that I need to continue my intellectual, professional, and emotional growth outside of Lexington."
"The greatest thing for me about the W&L journalism program is the numerous opportunities you have to succeed and keep learning."
Katie Baird '10 connects with students interested in consulting careers.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Africana Studies archive.