The April 6 gathering marks the restoration of “The Foundation” on the university’s campus, originally part of the historic Liberty Hall Academy property.
Jon Eastwood serves as department chair for sociology and anthropology.
Two presenters who met at a 2017 conference at Washington and Lee joined forces to repatriate a stolen Nepali deity. 
Hostile Terrain 94, a global pop-up exhibit that takes a powerful look at the human cost of undocumented migration at the U.S. southern border, opened at W&L this week after years of planning and collaboration.
It's the most wonderful term of the year, so keep an eye on @wlunews social media and this post for a daily dose of W&L's deeply engaging four-week term.
At W&L, Eric Herrera did field work in Ghana, created a biotech startup, and discovered the original location of the Alamo.
Who are we? Professor Alison Bell '91 uncovers clues about W&L’s complex identity through artifacts recovered near Liberty Hall Ruins.
The Geology and Archaeology departments collaborated with W&L's Outing Club to create a fun, educational hike just a short drive from Lexington.
The title of Gary Staab’s presentation is “Digital Dinosaurs: Fleshing out the Past." 
Averett’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Frightening the Frightful: Grotesque Visages from Ancient Cyprus.”
In response to student demand, Washington and Lee University has added three new interdisciplinary minors to enrich its curriculum.
While digging at the Athenian Agora Excavation in Greece this summer, Allison Schuster '19 indulged her passion for archaeology and classics.
Donald Gaylord's Spring Term class introduced students to archaeological lab methods through hands-on experience, readings and field trips. 
The story featured Bell and her work studying cemeteries in the Shenandoah Valley.
Anna Milewski '18 has spent time in fields, labs, carpenter shops and seminar rooms - and it was all part of one internship at the home of George Washington.
In the first installment of this new series, Tom Camden offers the story of a Sumerian clay tablet that is the oldest recorded document in W&L's Special Collections.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Archaeology archive.