The article looks at current instability involving corporate shareholder voting rights, examining it through a historical lens.
The project will require periodic modifications to pedestrian and vehicular traffic in the area.
Lisa Hedrick, partner and chair of the M&A and Finance practice group at the firm Hirschler Fleischer, has been recognized for her work in the field.
As a member of the NAC, Woody will review decisions rendered in FINRA disciplinary and membership proceedings.
Law professor Karen Woody breaks down some of the history behind Elon Musk’s relationship with Twitter and the controversy surrounding the takeover of the company.
Washington and Lee law professor Karen Woody and the students in her Insider Trading seminar recently launched a podcast that explores the arc and evolution of insider trading over the last century.
Washington and Lee law professor Karen Woody and the students in her Insider Trading seminar have launched a podcast that will explore the arc and evolution of insider trading over the last century.
Professor Carliss Chatman published "Corporate Family Matters."
Washington and Lee law professor Karen Woody has been selected for a fellowship with the Herndon Foundation aimed at preparing diverse professionals for positions on corporate boards.
On Friday, April 9, UCLA law professor Adam Winkler will deliver the annual Hendricks Lecture in Law and History. The title of Winkler’s talk is “How Corporations Became People.”
How are people like companies? Prof. Carliss Chatman explains in her new children's book, "Companies are People Too."
Insider trading is back in the news, although some would argue it never left.
Charette is headed to the Boston office of Proskauer Rose, working on private equity deals with their Private Investment Funds group.
Melissa Lagoumis '20L writes about how a 3L externship changed her outlook and her career.
What does it mean to be an ethical lawyer in today's business environment? 
Washington and Lee law professor Kish Parella has been selected for the third time in three years to present at the Yale/Stanford/Harvard Junior Faculty Forum. 
The 2018-2019 Lara D. Gass Symposium will feature a diverse collection of leading scholars and experts on corporate law to explore the past, present, and future of social and environmental shareholder activism.
Marc Nichols ‘98L oversees legal functions at Saab to assure safety of domestic travelers and the military.
Three Washington and Lee alumnae and lawyers, two from the law school and one from the college, have been recognized for their work in the legal field of mergers and acquisitions.
Washington and Lee law school dean Brant Hellwig has announced the appointment of Carliss Chatman to the permanent faculty, effective next semester.
Kristen Mynes '19L spent her summer in Germany with Jones Day, getting a new perspective on the law and her career plans.
Law professors Lyman Johnson and David Millon have been honored by the AALS Section on Business Associations Outstanding Mentor Award for their work with younger scholars in the field of corporate law.
Christopher Bruner, the William Donald Bain Family Professor of Corporate Law at W&L, delivered the keynote address at a conference titled “International Financial Services and Small States” on January 30, 2017.
A new book by Washington and Lee law professor Christopher Bruner explores how “offshore” financial markets emerged and rose to prominence.
The Lara D. Gass Symposium will focus this year on corporate law and governance, honoring the scholarship of two of the law school’s longest-serving faculty members, Lyman Johnson and David Millon.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Corporate Law archive.