Bright Frimpong and Keri Larson teamed with two others to produce a paper on crowdfunding that was featured in the Journal of Business Venturing Insights.
Frederick will serve as co-presenter for a session that demonstrates the beneficial uses of technology in the curriculum mapping process.
Unger embraces the full W&L experience, including incredible academic opportunities and being a DIII athlete.
A four-person team comprised of John Schleider ‘24, Diwesh Kumar ‘24, Bradford Bush ’25 and Drew Thompson ‘25 claimed the $3,000 top prize for their pitch on CVS Health.
Smith’s W&L experience includes finding a family in his lacrosse teammates and helping other students discover their career paths as a career fellow. 
Rubel’s lecture will be held in Northen Auditorium on Feb. 22 at 5:30 p.m.
The second-year faculty member co-authored a paper analyzing the effect of CEO age on financial reporting quality and clawback provisions.
Josh Rassin ’24 will begin his two-year placement with a startup company following graduation.
The second-year faculty member co-authored a paper analyzing the relation between institutional ownership and earnings management. 
The United Bank senior executive engages with the W&L community through student recruitment and event participation.
Andrew Tartakovsky ’23 received a Fulbright grant to teach English in Azerbaijan.
Denny Garvis and Zoila Ponce de León presented a two-day online workshop on applying adaptive and interactive learning practices in undergraduate statistics courses.
Pooja Thakur-Wernz presented her paper at the Academy of International Business Conference in Warsaw, Poland on July 9.
Weaver’s advice for current students: Take advantage of every opportunity and embrace respectful debate.
Justin Davis studied numerous Kickstarter campaigns and published the findings alongside three colleagues.
Young learned the critical skills to excel at her job from the veteran journalists in Reid Hall.
Washington and Lee seniors David Onyejekwe ’23, Jake McCabe ’23 and Bailey Keel ’23 have created lasting connections with the local community as volunteer coaches for Lex Lax youth lacrosse.
Haydon credits the W&L community for inspiring him and guiding him toward success.
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join a conversation with W&L’s expert faculty on their teaching, research interests and passion projects.
Barrow’s experience at W&L gave him the confidence to work through any challenge or opportunity.
For W&L alumni Kevin Green ’07 and Amanda Green ’06, nature and nurture go hand-in-hand.
Nate Abercrombie ’20, conservative outreach coordinator at Citizens Climate Lobby, works toward finding common ground.
Tartakovsky has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Azerbaijan, his parents’ homeland.
Tobeason appreciates the balance she’s found at W&L as a student-athlete.
Mock Convention made its Spring Kickoff event an informative preview of upcoming convention conversations.
Kavanagh encourages current students to "never be afraid to reach out to the W&L network."
The professor of business administration shared his thoughts on ChatGPT and what AI means for higher education.
Moran is inspired by W&L’s values and commitment to liberal arts education.
New members will serve a six-year term supporting Dean Rob Straughan and the school’s faculty members.
Professors Emily Landry and Jim Casey both spoke at the workshop held in Havana.
Community-Based Learning’s collaborations this fall offered students an opportunity to deepen community connections.
This fall, Washington and Lee Student Consulting tackled a new project for a local business with a sustainability focus.
Collin Frazey ’23 spent his summer working for Meta's intellectual property team in the heart of Silicon Valley.
Cleveland is working as a trip leader for an active travel company in Alaska this summer, and she plans to work in Europe this fall. 
Kayla Monaghan ’24 is collaborating on a Summer Research Scholars (SRS) project to enhance resources available through Leyburn Library.
After a successful summer internship in 2021, W&L's Rett Daugbjerg '22 is now working for JLL's Capital Markets group in Atlanta, Georgia. 
Kristen Xu ’22 worked diligently during her time at W&L to accomplish her dream of working with a beauty company after graduation. Currently, she is a global marketing coordinator at NARS Cosmetics in New York.
Eric Bazile '25 is interning with the Austin Greater Chamber of Commerce through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty (SHECP).
Sheridan, a business administration and studio art major, will be joining the wealth management team at UBS in New York City.
The Williams School congratulates the Class of 2022 graduates who received awards and honors for academic excellence during their time at W&L.
Addison has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Uruguay, where she will teach English to primary or secondary school students and serve as a cultural ambassador for the United States.
Keeley will live in a German community for one academic year to teach English to students in a local school.
Capt. Connor Smithson ’13 channels his creative energies into his small woodworking shop specializing in custom flags, plaques and furniture pieces.
The professor of business administration emeritus taught at W&L from 1974 - 1999.
The spring event is scheduled for Friday and Saturday, April 29-30 on campus.
Through her coaching business, Shana Horrigan ’91 works with clients of all ages, in the U.S. and across the globe, who feel they are at a turning point in their lives. 
In addition to pursuing a double major at Washington and Lee, Jackson Hotchkiss ’24 is a competitive cycler who just placed fourth in his age group in a national cycling championship.
The article examines the impact of a stronger intellectual property rights (IPR) regime through the adoption of Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) on innovation by Indian firms in the bio-pharmaceutical industry.
Assistant Professor Lingshu Hu joined the Business Administration Department in September 2021.
Andi Coulter joined the Business Administration department as a visiting assistant professor in fall 2021.
The study showed that highly attractive job-seekers tend to feel more powerful than other candidates, but one simple exercise can level the playing field.
The assistant professor of business administration combines philosophy and finance to examine organizational behavior in all kinds of business settings.
In a shifting media landscape, Ted Williams ’07 and Mike Allen ’86 are focused on reigniting local journalism through a new business venture.
Campbell has won a Gilman Scholarship to do an internship in Barcelona, Spain.
The faculty and staff of the Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics congratulate our 2021 graduates who have received awards and honors for academic excellence during their time at W&L.
Young alumnus Alden Schade shares why he gives back to W&L.
W&L seniors Will Gentry and Gray Carlton started Lexington Harvest Haul to deliver local food to consumers. They’re now looking to sell the successful business before they leave Lexington after graduation.
The program offers participants the opportunity to work in France for seven months, teaching English to French students of all ages.
In 2020, Julie Youngman introduced significant programmatic and curricular development in W&L’s new interdisciplinary program on Law, Justice and Society.
Poppenberg has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Argentina starting in March 2022.
Professor Thakur-Wernz published a paper in the International Journal of Emerging Markets.
Sundie teaches marketing courses at W&L, including Marketing Management. 
The Entrepreneurship Summit will take place online on Friday and Saturday, Oct. 2–3.
Professor Thakur-Wernz joined W&L in July 2020 as an assistant professor of strategy and international business. She has taught courses in strategic management, international business, and international management.
Adam L. Schwartz, a long-time resident of Lexington, VA, passed away peacefully on August 22, 2020.
Fifteen W&L faculty members and two alumnae have signed on to help teach a Fall Term course that will cover multiple aspects of the COVID-19 crisis.
Spring Term courses aim to provide innovative, one-of-a-kind educational experiences to W&L students. Online instruction during COVID-19 led to many new opportunities.
Internship and Study Semester in Asia-Pacific student Sam Smiley '21 reminisces about his stay in Singapore, which was cut short because of COVID-19.
Gavin Fox answers questions about the value of grocery credit card programs.
Temi Adeyanju '21 describes her many adventures in Australia during her Internship and Study Semester in Asia-Pacific.
Annie Echols '21 explores some surprising similarities between Sydney and Lexington while in Australia for the Internship and Study Semester in Asia Pacific program.
Foster Friedman '21 discusses the highlights of his experience with the Internship and Study Semester in Asia Pacific Program.
As director of operations for Mock Con 2020, Kylie Piotte '21 puts her event-planning skills to the test and finds her fit at W&L.
Whether he's on the football field or in the Mock Con war room, Kyle Perel '20 never forgets about the importance of teamwork and adaptable leadership.
As general chair for Mock Con 2020, Jimmy Fleck '20 uses his political knowledge and business skills to lead a team of stand-out students toward a historic moment.
The title of Schatten’s article is “Prison: Where Undergrads and Inmates Take Classes Together.”
Attendees will discover the technology, insights and trends shaping the future of data and analytics.
In the article, Lind discusses the unique education students receive at W&L.
In the article, Bassiouny answered common questions about foreign transactions and credit card fees. 
As a recipient of this award, Gilbert was recognized at the 2019 SIOP Annual Conference at the National Harbor in Fort Washington, Maryland, in April.
Jack Huffard '90 talks about the actionable insights he has gained from the Entrepreneurship Summit (Sept. 27-28) and the skills needed to be a successful entrepreneur.
n the podcast, Schatten and Dudley discuss organizational culture and values.
Wenle Mu '20 describes a typical week of living in Australia as a student in the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program.
Zander Kieu highlights his first three months in Sydney as part of the Sydney Study Abroad and Internship Program.
The new minor combines a liberal arts education with rigorous business training.
Our favorite term is well underway! Here is a glimpse inside some of the many fascinating courses being taught off-campus this year.
Six student teams, selected from 11 semi-finalist teams, participated in the annual W&L Business Plan Competition finals on Saturday, April 6. The teams took home a total of $7,000 in cash prizes.
Tsvetkova will be working at Robert Bosch GmbH a large multinational engineering and electronics company.
CBYX is a yearlong fellowship, funded by the German Bundestag and U.S. Congress through the U.S. Department of State. 
Agrippina has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain.
Chad Ballard III ’06 cultivates a sustainable crop that also nurtures the Chesapeake  Bay ecosystem.
Jeff Schatten, assistant professor of business administration at Washington and Lee University, said he launched the podcast in part because of student input.
Claire Mackin '20 shares her experiences in Sydney as part of the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program.
As part of the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program, Mariam Samuel '20 is taking courses at the University of Sydney and interning at Wheatley Wealth Management.
A market research project generated by W&L students is helping a Danish company to align its initiatives with the UN's Sustainable Development Goals.
Stephanie Lind ’92 is on a mission to change the way people think about and eat meat.
Ben Capouya '20 interviews Victoria Kumpuris Brown '98 about her career in food policy and health at the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
Whether he's working with the Williams Investment Society or playing jazz guitar, Joe Wen '19 makes the most of his W&L experience.
The event will focus on how data is shaping sports, entertainment, and healthcare.
Payne joined the W&L Board of Trustees on October 5.
Jesse Evans '20 spent his summer ensuring that this year's summit, which took place Sept. 21-22, would be a success. 
A philanthropic twist on AirBnB, W&L's Habitat Hotel raises thousands for much-needed affordable housing in Rockbridge.
Caroline Schmidt '13 volunteered for the Red Cross during 2017's horrific hurricane season.
Gonz Ferrero ’04 and Lenny Enkhbold ’17 blend their shared concern for the environment with a dash of business savvy to promote eco-friendly outdoor wear. 
The Darrold and Kay Cannan Associate Term Professor of Business Administration studies what she calls “the intersection of business and the natural environment.” She arrived at that spot after studying engineering, management, business — and philosophy.
W&L students Graham Novak '19 and Mourad Berrached '20 won a $15,000 prize at the 2018 Schulze Entrepreneurship Challenge. 
Students in the Cape Town Summer Internship Program gain professional experience and a better understanding of South Africa’s culture.
During a four-week internship with Enact Sustainable Strategies in Stockholm, Julia Carullo '20 has been inspired by Sweden's dedication to sustainability in business practices.
Danielle Spickard '19 is taking full advantage of what the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program has to offer.
The summit will take place Friday and Saturday, September 21-22, 2018. Alumni registration is now open.
Elizabeth Oliver will assume the role of associate dean beginning July 1.
While studying in Sydney, Bradley Callaham '19 interns at LINK, the world’s largest international business brokerage firm.
DeVogt taught at W&L from 1962 to 2000.
ODK inducted four honorary and seven student initiates
Soon Ho spends his days in Australia studying at the University of Sydney and interning at Greencross Limited, Australia's largest pet care company.
Students enrolled in Dr. Shay’s BUS 399 Entrepreneurship capstone course took home a total of $11,000 in cash prizes.
As a first-year student at W&L, Jane Chiavelli '18 had no idea that she would face a huge challenge — and come out of it with strong leadership skills.
Teresa Aires Rodrigues is spending her winter term in Sydney, Australia.
Her talk is titled "Does it Make Sense to Blame Corporations?" 
Hermione Wang '18 has spent so much time in Lenfest that people jokingly ask her if she lives there. Her job? Making sure that the show always goes on.
The VP of global brand communications for adidas delivered the keynote address at a daylong advertising and marketing conference full of networking opportunities for students.
Laura Gottschalk moved from Lexington to Arlington to intern at EY during the Winter Term.
Dr. Jeffrey Lacker, former CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, will give the H. Parker Willis Lecture in Political Economy.
Skyler T. Zunk ’19 was an intern at the White House's Office of Political Affairs.
Kathryn E. Young '19 got a Reynolds Business Scholarship that allowed her to intern at her hometown newspaper, the Richmond Times-Dispatch.
Kate Donnelly ’11 is using her education and Shepherd experiences to improve her local community.
The William Jefferson Clinton Scholarship will allow Spiezio to attend the American University in Dubai during Winter Term 2018.
Lee Sommerfeldt '18 found a home away from home in a honky-tonk in the heart of Tokyo.
An internship at Warner Music Group in Nashville allowed Mary-Michael Teel '18 to marry her two loves: music and communications.
Julia Kaczmar '19 spent a summer in New York City, learning the logistics of the latest fashions.
Mandy Witherspoon ’18 combined her love of art with her expertise in business at the Baltimore Museum of Art.
Caroline Rivers test drove her Spanish—and her courage in unfamiliar environments—during a summer teaching gig in Argentina.
DataCon, a new event for students, will highlight the impacts of data analytics, big data and statistical computing.
Soon Ho Kwon '17 and Claire Meyers '18 spent the summer looking at how Corporate Social Responsibility plays a role in the bottom line.
Jeff Schatten explains the best places to flip houses in 2017.
Julia Poppenberg '19 spent the summer as a translator in Guatemala, helping doctors and patients alike and learning to "talk strong."
Stephen Mitchell '17 credits students, alumni, and W&L academics for helping him to find the right career path.
Steven Yeung '17 has been in classrooms from Lexington to Ghana to Shanghai and back — and now plans to run a classroom in Japan.
Dashiell Dericks ’18 and Jesse Evans ’20 are selling saplings grown from Colonnade oak trees in a new business that marries Dericks' love of silviculture and his fondness for W&L.
Three student teams took home a total of $7,000 in W&L's annual Business Plan Competition.
Whether they were doing service work in Birmingham, touring firms in NYC, or climbing an ice-encrusted mountain in New Hampshire, Washington and Lee students made the most of Washington Break.
Karishma Patel '18 loves finding the intersections of technology and business - while studying abroad in Madrid.
Logan Bartlett '10 makes the Forbes 30 Under 30 list for venture capitalism.
Meet Harry Lustig ‘17, a scholar-explorer who’s hiked everywhere from the Blue Ridge to Alaska.
Sandra Reiter, associate professor of business administration at Washington and Lee University, will give a talk on Feb. 15 as part of W&L’s Roger Mudd Center for Ethics Markets and Morals series.
Meet Carley Sambrook, a senior who has the know-how to explore her dream thanks to the Fashion Career Trip to New York.
“Streaming Wars and the Future of Music” will be the topic of John Donaldson’s address when he speaks at W&L Nov. 15.
Stephen Lind talks about Charlie Brown and The Great Pumpkin on The Academic Minute.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Prakhar Naithani '17 conducts research at North Carolina State University's Forestry Biomaterials Department.
Business administration and philosophy major Gordon McAlister '17 interns on the tech team at Sands Capital Management in Washington, D.C.
Co-directors of W&L Student Consulting keep their teams organized to deliver for the client.
Myrna Barrera-Torres '15 in Vina del Mar, Chile, and Rome, Italy.
"Good and bad things will happen when you take risks and leave what's comfortable, but I promise it's worth it."
.
"The one thing that will set you apart and help define you is how you cope with the challenges you face, learn from them and move on."
Recipients of W&L's Certificate of International Immersion reflect on their experiences abroad.
Austin Eisenhofer is a business administration major and captain of the varsity football team. A lifelong racing fan, he spent the summer working for Penske Racing, Inc. as an athletics and team management intern.
Patrick O'Connor is a business administration major with a minor in education policy from Richmond, Va. A member of the Class of 2015, he is a member of the varsity basketball team, a first-year resident advisor and a Burish intern.
New business law professor hopes to teach students to be better negotiators.
"I've learned a diverse set of capabilities that has aided my transformation from a curious girl with a knack for business into a cognizant, concerned businesswoman aware of the challenges of this complex world."
Accounting and Business Administration major lends her planning skills to the annual Souper Bowl benefit for the Campus Kitchen Backpack Program.
Rising senior Steven Yeung was one of the youngest members of the Virginia delegation — and one of the youngest delegates nationwide — at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia.
Mike Wilner '13 is on the fast track as a young entrepreneur.
Advertising Operations and Ad Research Intern at Hulu.
Modern Professional Presentations is Not Your Average Public Speaking Class.
Haley Miller '16, a lifelong lover of sports, works as a marketing intern for Adidas.
Intern at Grow Marketing in San Francisco.
"A liberal arts education hones transferable skills."
Business administration and art history major Colton Klein '15 interns at Sotheby's headquarters in New York City.
"College is a time to both explore uncharted territory and to further your interests."
"Washington and Lee has been the happy intersection of the qualities I desired in a large and small school."
Business Administration and Romance Languages Major Carley Sambrook '17 Interns for Michael Kors.
Business Administration Professor Presents Research at Comic-Con.
Art history and business administration major Sarah Wagner interns in the public relations department of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.
"For me, W&L is limitless. This is a community that supports, and even encourages, its members to identify and pursue multiple passions."
Business administration and art history major Sarah Williamson '18 interns in the finance department at the Guggenheim.
The return of students in the fall elicits mixed emotions. We feel the absence of those who have moved on even as we welcome the fresh and eager, first-year (FY) students.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Business Administration archive.