The Critical Language Scholarship Program funds a summer of overseas language and cultural immersion.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate student recipients.
Sharman will put his degrees to use in a position on Capitol Hill.
Carley will serve as an English language teaching assistant in a school in the former Soviet republic.
Lane Johansen was inspired by an unforgettable summer in Ukraine.
Six undergraduate students received Critical Language Scholarships, which will provide them the opportunity to study language intensively during summer 2022.
Johansen plans to head to Eastern Europe after graduation to serve Ukrainian refugees.
Members of the Washington and Lee University community are responding to last month’s incursion by offering educational opportunities and raising funds for relief efforts.
Approximately 70% of students participate in an abroad program during their time at W&L.
Nick Mosher '22 always finds support at W&L, whether he's writing a thesis on Russian politics, starting an online human rights newspaper or helping the football team win ODACs.
Shrayer will read from and discuss his new book, “A Russian Immigrant: Three Novellas.”
Becoming a part of the Outing Club at Washington and Lee completely changed Matt Richards's college experience. "My time with the Outing Club has without a doubt had the biggest impact on my time here," he said.
The Critical Language Scholarship Program has allowed Riley Ries '19 to strengthen his Russian and learn more about politics and culture in Kyrgyzstan.
Elizabeth McDonald heads to Japan, Emily Austin to Indonesia and Riley Ries to Kyrgyzstan.
Senior Stephanie Williams '18 says W&L's First-Generation Low-Income Partnership (FLIP) gave her support to overcome obstacles and mentor other low-income students.
For World Thinking Day, W&L's foreign language teaching assistants led local Girl Scouts in a variety of internationally themed activities.
The two-day event will feature a film screening of "Bridge of Spies" and a panel discussion with lawyers who have represented notorious clients.
Richard Bidlack, the Martin and Brooke Stein Professor of History, writes about reconnecting with a former student in her hometown of Tbilisi, Georgia, 27 years after she was an exchange student at W&L.
Washington and Lee University this year welcomes seven foreign language teaching assistants.
Olga Dunaevskaya is one of seven foreign language teaching assistants at W&L this year.
"In my four years here, most of my 'classrooms' were not in a classroom."
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Russian Area Studies archive.