The Chilean activist’s talk will be held Feb. 12 at 5 p.m.
The Spanish professor appears as a faculty expert in the film that debuted at the Virginia Film Festival last month. 
Zoila Ponce de León’s chapter is titled “Health Care and the Public-Private Mix in Mexico, Chile, and Peru” and appears in the Latin American section of the publication.
Marcos Perez is an assistant professor of sociology.
The solo exhibition will run from April 24 to May 25 in Staniar Gallery inside Washington and Lee University’s Lenfest Center for the Arts.
Baluarte will teach in the Refugee Law Clinic and assist in the development of clinical legal education more broadly at the Iberoamericana University.
The fourth edition of “Comparative Politics” is a collaboration between faculty in W&L’s Department of Politics and Department of Sociology and Anthropology.
For more than 20 years, ESOL volunteers have participated in language and literacy work in the Lexington-Rockbridge area and beyond.
Zoila Ponce de León recognized by the Journal for Latin American Studies.
The show will be on display in Wilson Hall’s Lykes Atrium in conjunction with Esteban Ramón Pérez’s solo exhibition “Distorted Myths,” which will be on view in the Staniar Gallery Oct. 10 through Nov. 2. 
The Comunidad Latina Estudiantil has planned and organized numerous events in collaboration with the Office of Inclusion and Engagement.
Zoila Ponce de León will utilize the grant to study immigration and deportation in the U.S. and Brazil. 
Lepage’s talk “Borderlands Arts Pedagogy” will be held on Sept. 28.
Ponce de Leon's paper "Women Want an Answer! Field Experiments on Elected Officials and Gender Bias" was featured in the Harvard Gendar Action Portal
The Instituto Cervantes invited Professor Mayock to Spain to speak at the inaugural event for the Centenary Celebration of Carmen Laforet in March 2022.
Cambridge University Press will publish Marcos Perez's book on Argentina's Unemployed Workers' Movement.
Approximately 70% of students participate in an abroad program during their time at W&L.
The book will prove invaluable in helping students gain a better understanding of the theory and practice of environmental and natural resource economics.
The novel “Ursula” is Brazil's first abolitionist novel and the first novel by an Afro-Brazilian woman.
 Ponce de León's peer-reviewed journal article focuses on the impact of political parties on healthcare reform in Peru.
Professor Cristina Pinto-Bailey recently published an essay on Black Brazilian feminisms and translated four pieces by Afro-Brazilian writers.
Professor Seth Michelson completed a weeklong virtual residency and gave the keynote address on social justice at Southern Connecticut State University.
Professor Andrea Lepage recently published two essays based on exhibits in W&L's Staniar Gallery.
Helping with sheep at Tom Stanley's farm is providing Isaiah Medina '22 and Abby Hamilton '22 with valuable experience that they can include on future veterinary school applications. 
The article is titled “Lava Jato deepened political chaos in Peru and splashes the 18 presidential candidates.”
Miranda's new poem, "Torch," was selected as the American Academy of Poets' "Poem-a-Day."
The article, published in the Journal of Experimental Political Science, questions whether elected officials are more responsive to men than women inquiring about access to government services.
Rivers has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Mexico starting January 2021.
In his first experience outside the U.S., Joshua Valdez '22 traveled to Argentina for a memorable internship.
A new play by Professor Domnica Radulescu gives voice to local immigrants.
Spending the summer in Nicoya, Costa Rica, helped Montgomery Owen '21 to strengthen his Spanish language skills.
Sydney Lee '21 spent summer 2019 studying Spanish and falling in love with the town of Nicoya, Costa Rica.
The article is titled “The Changing Shapes of Latin American Welfare States."
Through coursework and connections, Hannah Archer '20 helped to create a school food service program to ensure that local children have enough to eat during the summer. 
Edwin Castellanos Campos '20 came up with the idea for the special edition after taking a Spring Term sociology/anthropology course about U.S. immigration and refugees.
The title of Barnett’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is “Lost (And Found Again) in Translation.”
After spending the summer teaching and exploring in Costa Rica, Taylor Casey '20 can't wait to return.
Daniel Rhoades '19 spent the summer immersed in the language and culture of Costa Rica.
Language and culture courses at W&L prepared Marissa Miller '21 for a fun, educational trip to Nicoya, where she met the vice president of Costa Rica (left, center).
Ali Greenberg ’13 has opened a flexible workspace and social club in Richmond that emphasizes community for women and gender minorities.
W&L will recognize the outstanding contributions of professors Marjorie Agosín and Harlan Beckley at its 231st commencement.
ODK inducted four honorary and seven student initiates
Edwin Castellanos '20 created a system that allows students to save money by borrowing donated textbooks.
Caroline Rivers test drove her Spanish—and her courage in unfamiliar environments—during a summer teaching gig in Argentina.
W&L presents Cajun-Creole musicians David Greely and Cedric Watson on Oct. 19.
Professor Jeff Barnett publishes a translation of Cuban poetry.
MK Moran's work with the LGBTQ Resource Center at Washington and Lee is impacting student perspectives.
Marina Silva, Brazilian environmentalist and politician, will give the keynote at the Brazilian Economy in the 21st Century colloquium.
Myrna Barrera-Torres '15 in Vina del Mar, Chile, and Rome, Italy.
Recipients of W&L's Certificate of International Immersion reflect on their experiences abroad.
Connor Chess '17 spends a summer studying, working and teaching in Costa Rica, thanks to a Wooley Fellowship.
"W&L is a community that truly enables and encourages students to step outside of their comfort zones."
The Long Road to Facebook.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Latin American and Caribbean Studies archive.