Scott’s passion for the environment carries over from the classroom to opportunities on campus and beyond.
These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university.
The sustainable farmer’s talk will be held on March 19.
Environmental humanities classes introduced Hudson to new ideas on how humans interact with the world.
Mauricio Betancourt is an assistant professor of environmental studies.
The Chilean activist’s talk will be held Feb. 12 at 5 p.m.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Professor Lisa Greer has been taking students to Belize since 2011 to study the thriving reef corals located there.
Lucy Worthy ’24 assisted in the research and helped publish the results alongside two W&L alumni. 
Leah Naomi Green’s essay on Kaveh Akbar’s poem “The Miracle” is anthologized in “Raised by Wolves.”
Robert Humston will assess over 30 years of data collected by the U.S. Forest Service within the George Washington and Thomas Jefferson National Forests.
Caroline Wise ’23 is working as a backcountry guide for St. Elias Alpine Guides in Alaska.
Allie Stankewich ’23 will spend the summer in Tanzania before pursuing a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship in Uganda.
For Tilbor, W&L instilled a healthy curiosity and a lifelong love of learning.
Stankewich has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Uganda.
Margaret Anne Hinkle is an assistant professor of earth and environmental geoscience.
Students, faculty and staff are encouraged to sell unwanted items and donate any unsold items to benefit local nonprofit organizations. 
For W&L alumni Kevin Green ’07 and Amanda Green ’06, nature and nurture go hand-in-hand.
Leah Naomi Green’s essay titled “Mourning Songs Are Love Songs” was excerpted from the anthology “Solastalgia: An Anthology of Emotion in a Disappearing World.”
Assistant Professor Margaret Anne Hinkle’s article is titled “Impacts of Sulfonic Acids on Fungal Manganese Oxide Production.”
Tetiana Kozachanska ’26 is taking full advantage of her first year at Washington and Lee.
Professor Lisa Greer’s article focuses on the survival of coral reefs in the Caribbean.
Villante, a geoscientist in Iceland, will discuss the current state of the climate technology sector on Feb. 6.
Jeff Rahl is a professor and department head for earth and environmental geoscience.
Leah Naomi Green serves as visiting assistant professor of English and environmental studies.
Kim Stanley Robinson, an award-winning author, will give a public lecture on Nov. 10 at 6:15 p.m. in the University Chapel.
McKibben will present a public lecture on Sept. 26 at 5:30 p.m.
Kiera Stankewich ’25 tackled food justice in Louisville, Kentucky this summer through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty.
Lucy Worthy ’24 is conducting clinical research and shadowing a physician at the Mayo Clinic.
Caroline Wise '23 is spending her second summer working as an alpine guide in Alaska.
Bernard has been selected as a 2022 Udall Scholar in the environmental category.
A new deal will establish an offsite solar farm from which W&L will purchase energy equivalent to 100% of campus electricity use, allowing the university to lower greenhouse gas emissions, save money and close in on its goal of carbon neutrality.
Stankewich received a David L. Boren Scholarship from the National Security Education Program to study abroad in Tanzania in fall 2022.
Bri Mondesir ’22 has found her purpose through volunteer work in the Rockbridge area community as a scholar in the Bonner Program at W&L.
Each scholar is awarded $7,500 to support undergraduate research in their junior or senior year.
The book will prove invaluable in helping students gain a better understanding of the theory and practice of environmental and natural resource economics.
AJ Mabaka '22 plans to attend a graduate program in marine science and conservation  policy.
In addition to pursuing a double major at Washington and Lee, Jackson Hotchkiss ’24 is a competitive cycler who just placed fourth in his age group in a national cycling championship.
Allie Stankewich '23 spent summer 2021 learning about public health in Uganda and green roofs in New York City.
The dedicated students on the crew are making W&L a more sustainable place.
Watt has received a Fulbright grant to support his research on the importance of small-scale fishing for livelihoods, culture and well-being in Vanuatu, an island nation in the South Pacific. 
Leah Naomi Green was recognized for her new poem, "Origin Story."
Her project, “Age and Growth of Fan Mussel (Pinna nobilis) in Mar Menor,” will take her to Calpe, in Spain this fall.
W&L has allowed Christopher Watt '21 to meet other members of the community and find a future career where three of his passions converge.
The Sociology and Anthropology Department is collaborating with the Environmental Studies Program to present a new social justice series titled “White Supremacy and Society.”
The pandemic has presented challenges to working and learning within the community, but virtual and distanced projects have allowed those partnerships to continue to bear fruit this year. 
Testing sewage samples for the virus that causes COVID-19 is helping W&L to do targeted human testing and identify asymptomatic cases before they trigger large outbreaks.
Fifteen W&L faculty members and two alumnae have signed on to help teach a Fall Term course that will cover multiple aspects of the COVID-19 crisis.
Bridget Bartley '21 interviews Shiri Yadlin '12, director of Just Homes, a nonprofit that helps faith communities address homelessness in D.C.
At W&L, Katherine Ingram '20 found a research interest—and a future profession—where environmental studies meets economics.
Washington and Lee University's Office of Community-Based Learning has partnered with Lexington on projects that provide real-world learning experiences for students while also advancing the city's goals.
Kahn has been invited to give the opening keynote speech at the Exposition of Sustainability of the Industrial Pole of Manaus.
Julianna Keeling ’19 applied her passion for the environment to build a company focused on biodegradable consumer products. 
Casey was appointed by Virginia Governor Ralph Northam.
The discussion is free and open to the public.
The event, which is free and open to the public, is titled "The Future of the Amazon Rain Forest."
This summer, Ginny Johnson '20 served as a peer mentor to nine rising sophomores as part of the Keck Geology Consortium trip to Belize, where Professor Lisa Greer continued her research project into the staghorn coral population.
This summer, geology and environmental science major Chantal Iosso ’20 is studying the effects of the Jordan's Point Dam removal on the Maury River.
His statement was given at a public hearing at the EPA headquarters in Washington, D.C. on Mon., Mar. 18.
At W&L, sustainability starts with a seed and blossoms into sea change. Take a peek inside our gardening and composting effort to see how it's impacting our community — and the future.
The title of Gary Staab’s presentation is “Digital Dinosaurs: Fleshing out the Past." 
The talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Climate Change: Local Agriculture and Rainforest Solutions – A 7 Point Plan." 
The house's new Bike Shop offers free and low-cost rentals, lessons on bike maintenance, and opportunities for exploring the outdoors on two wheels.
Jesse Evans '20 spent his summer ensuring that this year's summit, which took place Sept. 21-22, would be a success. 
Strickler will give a talk on Wednesday, Sept. 19, at 6 p.m. in the Stackhouse Theater in Elrod Commons.
The Darrold and Kay Cannan Associate Term Professor of Business Administration studies what she calls “the intersection of business and the natural environment.” She arrived at that spot after studying engineering, management, business — and philosophy.
Attending the Princeton Environmental Ideathon was a natural progression for Julianna Keeling '19, who started a sustainable packaging company when she was still in high school. 
The A. Paul Knight Internship Program in Conservation, named in memory of a late Washington and Lee student, turns 30 this year. It has provided internships to 132 students and is still going strong.
Kathelen and Daniel Amos made the gift in memory of her son, John Kyle Spencer, a 2013 graduate of W&L. Professor Robert Humston (pictured) will be the new director.
Bell will discuss her second book, “Fighting King Coal: The Challenges to Micromobilization in Central Appalachia.”
Robert Humston's Aquatic Ecology class collected ecological data about the Maury River in preparation for the removal of Jordan's Point Dam.
Kat Oakley '19 has spent a lot of time contemplating the idea of "place" - both in Lexington and across the world. 
As a research assistant at the Virginia Institute of Marine Science, Rachel Steffen ’18 gathered data on the environmental thresholds of juvenile sandbar sharks.
Marta Regn ’19 used her internship to throughly explore all aspects of a sustainable, ethical jewelry startup.
Over the summer, students worked with Professor Robert Humston to examine the potential effects of smallmouth bass on native brook trout populations in the Virginia watershed.
Liz Todd '19 was able to extend her Spring Term Abroad and spend the summer in Brazil, where she worked for an environmental agency.
Greg Buppert, senior attorney for the Southern Environmental Law Center, will speak on “The Case Against the Atlantic Coast Pipeline.”
Students on the Sustainability Leadership pre-orientation trip had a chance to meet local food producers and learn about W&L's commitment to the environment.
Twelve Class of 2021 students visited W&L for a five-week Advanced Research Cohort program that allowed them to dabble in STEM projects and establish quality relationships.
As director of Iowa State University's conservation camp, Jennifer Schieltz ’08 follows the lives of elk, deer, moose, bears, wolves and mountain lions.
Ann Fisher-Wirth and Laura-Gray Street will hold a joint reading and talk on ecological approaches to poetry.
Meet Shlomo Honig ‘18, whose day consists of analyzing rocks, protecting the environment, and ultimate frisbee
Meet Tessa Horan '18, a pre-med, self-proclaimed "tree-hugger" with big plans for making the university - and the world - a little greener.
Meet Harry Lustig ‘17, a scholar-explorer who’s hiked everywhere from the Blue Ridge to Alaska.
Geology professor Lisa Greer, who has been taking students to Belize since 2011 to monitor the health of coral reefs, said their research indicates that the latest El Niño, on top of global climate change, may be harming the Belize Barrier Reef.
A call for student proposals related to sustainability projects provided valuable results for the campus and community.
Above or below the water, Sasha Doss '13 studies and connects with fish and their environment.
The conference will explore two fundamental but related themes: the ethical issues surrounding the valuation of ecosystem services and the proper role of preference satisfaction in the development of environmental policy.
Taking part in the Sustainability Leadership Pre-Orientation Program allowed a group of Washington and Lee first-years to understand the many facets of creating and supporting sustainable communities.
New student-sourced sustainability initiatives get the green light on campus.
.
.
"The one thing that will set you apart and help define you is how you cope with the challenges you face, learn from them and move on."
Studio art major Leigh Stauffer '16 works as a membership and development intern at The High Museum of Art in Atlanta.
"One of my goals is to bring Hillel to the students — to show them that we're here, and that we're here for everyone. ".
The Long Road to Facebook.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Environmental Studies archive.