These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university.
Lynch’s soprano recital will be held on April 6 at 8 p.m.
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join W&L faculty to discuss their teaching, research and passion projects.
“Myth, Magic, and Madness” will feature a dynamic lineup of creative workshops, dramatic readings and staged productions March 21-22.
The Elmes Pathfinder Prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
Tahri Phillips ’23 will be pursuing a master’s degree at the University of Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar.
Jana Hulsey ’25 and Jalen Todd ’25 will work with programs in Washington, D.C. for eight weeks over the summer. 
Connor has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Germany.
CBL’s new initiative is an opportunity for faculty development, student collaboration and deepening partnerships with the surrounding community.
The Elmes Pathfinder Prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
Thompson taught at W&L for more than 30 years.
Phillips '23 is the university’s 18th Rhodes Scholar.
The Robert Lee Telford Professor of Psychology retired in 2001.
These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university. 
Dan Johnson seeks to develop assessment tools to foster creativity in STEM education.
During the pandemic, she launched a helpline to support struggling pet owners.
Since graduation, Schiffman has worked as an account executive at Anomaly on the Crown Royal team in SoHo, New York City.  
After receiving a great deal of support from upperclassmen at Washington and Lee University, Hannah Puckett ’23 pays it forward by dedicating her time to mentoring and counseling first-year students.
The Elmes Pathfinder Prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
Under the Ted DeLaney Postdoctoral Program, Washington and Lee University is welcoming new faculty each year from underrepresented groups. 
Katana Evans '22 used summer enhancement funds to intern with Rep. Julia Brownley's office and Recovery Organization Resources.
The new episode of "W&L After Class: The Lifelong Learning Podcast" features Tyler Lorig, professor emeritus of cognitive and behavioral science, who has spent his career studying the olfactory system.
Hatfield will travel to Denmark for the fall semester and take multiple psychology classes.
The award will support a nine-month research project in India investigating intervention service access for individuals with disabilities.
Lorena Terroba Urruchua '21 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship (ETA) to Spain.
Brindle received a Jeffress Trust Awards Program in Interdisciplinary Research grant for his project, “"Modeling Energy Regulation Under Stress: A Possible Mechanism Linking Stress and Disease?"
The pandemic has presented challenges to working and learning within the community, but virtual and distanced projects have allowed those partnerships to continue to bear fruit this year. 
At W&L, Lorena Terroba Urruchua ’21 found her purpose — helping people with disabilities — at the intersection of psychology, Romance languages and poverty studies. 
The Elmes Pathfinder Prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
Erin Hughes '21 wants to use lessons learned in the classroom and on the basketball court to fight for systemic change in the world.
Karla Klein Murdock, professor of cognitive and behavioral science at Washington and Lee University, has been named the next Roger Mudd Professor of Ethics and director of the university’s Roger Mudd Center for Ethics.
Enuma Anekwe-Desince '22 has found her niche at Washington and Lee University through her involvement in the Advanced Immersion and Mentoring Program, leadership roles in student organizations, and work as a research assistant in the sociology and psychology departments.
Hollis Owens ’97’s nonprofit offers people with disabilities opportunities to present to, and educate, schoolchildren about their lives.
Spring Term courses aim to provide innovative, one-of-a-kind educational experiences to W&L students. Online instruction during COVID-19 led to many new opportunities.
A class in Denmark, an internship in India and lots of eye-opening experiences in the Lexington community have encouraged Amanda Dorsey '21 to advocate for inclusion in the public health field.
Lainey Johnson '16 values connections with a variety of people from different backgrounds, which is something she learned to prize at W&L. 
Their talk is titled "The New Appendage: Cellphones in Cognitive and Behavioral Context."
On the show, Woodzicka talks about her research on sexual harassment.
Working with Campus Kitchen at Washington and Lee has made Hannah Witherell '20 determined to continue helping others after she leaves W&L.
The event is free and open to the public.
The Elmes Pathfinder Prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
The piece discusses their research studies into sci-fi and the effect it has on human intelligence.
Q&A with Eentrepreneur Cory Allison ’94. 
The title of Sue’s lecture is “Microaggressions: Toxic Rain on College Campuses."
Current Advances in Psychological Science: Sleep, Health and Society, a Spring Term course taught by Ryan Brindle, explores the basics of sleep, why people need it, and the impacts of sleep deprivation.
Krista Camp ’13 is on the front lines of one of America’s most contentious issues — immigration.
Straske is a psychology major and dance minor and has been a member of Professor Megan Fulcher’s developmental psychology research lab since the winter of her freshman year.
Bob Chandler ’92 charts his own course as co-owner of omnichannel retailer Tactics.
This summer, Davis Straske '19 is researching children's play in psychology professor Megan Fulcher's Gender Development Lab. 
Washington and Lee students partnered with Eagle’s Nest Clubhouse members to create a 32-foot community mural around the theme of recovery.
Elmes taught at Washington and Lee University for 40 years until his retirement in 2007.
The professor of psychology emeritus died June 4.
Evan Kueffner ’18 remains mindful of the friends, professors, coaches, staff and community members who opened doors to multiple opportunities for him.
ODK inducted four honorary and seven student initiates
One psychology class led Kelsey Jervis '18 to a long-term research project, a degree, and a spot on the Institutional Review Board.
Bri Shaw has spent her college career studying how humans work. Now, the senior has some ideas about how the humans at W&L could work better together.
Bob Chandler ’92 charted his own course as entrepreneur co-owner of omni-channel retailer Tactics
The title of his talk is "A Hesitant Intimacy: Medicine’s Response to the Unchosen Vulnerability of the Sick and Suffering.”
W&L welcomed two new members to its Board of Trustees Feb. 9.
The prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
Clay uses a comparative approach with primates to investigate the evolution of human behavior. 
Woodzicka's talk is titled “Are All Jokes Created Equal? Differential Effects of Group-Based Disparagement Humor.”
As head of brand communications for Adidas, Alegra O’Hare ’94 advises young women to 'break barriers.'
He is internationally recognized for his theories and pioneering research techniques exploring human memory accessibility and retrieval.
A passion for asking questions has led Batsheva Honig ‘17 from America to Argentina to study women’s health in both countries.
Meet Yolanda Yang ‘18, who has traveled to China and back to discover the true purpose of cinematic censorship. Yang and study partner Savannah Kimble ’18 conducted research on this project in 2017 under the auspices of a grant from the Endeavor Foundation.
Henry Eugene King, professor emeritus of psychology at Washington and Lee University, died on Oct. 31, at his home in Lexington, Virginia.
Join one scientist on a journey through sleep, space, and safety.
Jake Burnett, a Washington and Lee University senior from Anaheim Hills, California, has been awarded the 2016 David G. Elmes Pathfinder Prize in Psychology.
Shepherd Intern at Bridges, St. Paul's School in Baltimore.
Psychology major Darby Lundquist '17 interns at Eastern Virginia Medical School.
W&L Psychology professor Tyler Lorig reports from his AAAS fellowship on Capitol Hill.
"A large part of my personal growth has stemmed from my involvement with W&L athletics."
Alessandra Catizone '15 and Eleanor Jones '15 provide prosthetic hands to amputees in El Salvador.
Michael Bronstein '15 and T.J. Fisher '15 study the evolution of the depiction of chaos in art and neuroscience.
Christopher Levy '15 and Sara Korash-Schiff '15 study the production of overtones in choral music.
"My W&L experience has been everything I thought that college would be."
"For me, W&L is limitless. This is a community that supports, and even encourages, its members to identify and pursue multiple passions."
Psychology major Lainey Johnson combines research and service for the benefit of a local non-profit.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Psychology archive.