A Washington Break trip to New York City opened students’ eyes to future possibilities in theater.
The former executive director of ArtPower at the University of California, San Diego will begin his new role in July.
Performances of the high school samurai tale run April 3-5.
The iconic myth comes to life March 21-22 in Wilson Concert Hall.
The award-winning ensemble’s performances will run March 14-16.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company’s alumni-student dance performance in New York City’s Center for Performance Research returned after a four-year hiatus.
The New Zealand-based choreographer will teach a master class for the campus community on Jan. 30.
Stephanie Sandberg, assistant professor of theater, will discuss this year’s Nobel Prize in literature on Wednesday, Jan. 31 at 12:15 p.m.
In May, Mary Hipp ’90 said being a member of the second class of women undergraduates at W&L taught her a lot— although she didn’t realize it at the time.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company’s performances will run Nov. 30 through Dec. 2.
W&L’s recent staging of ‘Speech & Debate’ brought its cast, crew and audience an opportunity to engage with an innovative, collaborative approach to theater.
Jenefer Davies authored “The Art of Dance Composition: Writing the Body,” an introduction to modern dance composition.
The production runs from Nov. 1-4 in Johnson Theatre on the W&L campus.
The premiere event will be followed by a student-led discussion about their experiences and the creative journey in producing the films.
Tickets for the entire season will be available to purchase beginning Sept. 11.
W&L students in this Spring Term’s “Swedish Theater” course were immersed in culture during their three weeks in Stockholm, Sweden.
Gordon taught at W&L from 1974 to 2001.
Connor has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Germany.
The groups will honor Black composers with a series of performances March 30-April 1.
The show runs from March 9-11 in Keller Theatre on the W&L Campus.
Moran is inspired by W&L’s values and commitment to liberal arts education.
The playwright will host a screening of his play “Citizen James” and a playwriting workshop Feb. 14-15.
W&L’s distinctive summer programming helped Burks-Parra develop her personal and professional interests.
Ocean voyages, sword fights, treasure hunts, rivalry, friendships and pirates are on display in this show based on the familiar novel by Robert Louis Stevenson.
The first From Screen to Square event will take place on Monday, Nov. 7.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company will perform ‘W&L Dancers Create…’ on Nov. 3–5.
Booker will give a lecture on Sept. 27 at 5 p.m. in in Leyburn Library’s Northen Auditorium.
For the first time ever, tickets for the entire season are available online beginning Sept. 13. 
Leah Jackson ’22 always knew she wanted to pursue the health field. Thanks to summer internships and dedication, she heads off to Harvard this fall to follow her passion.  
The show will run for three nights: May 17-19. Tickets are required.
The show runs from March 31-April 3 in Keller Theatre on the W&L campus.
The groups will present a combined dance and music performance on March 10-12 at 7:30 p.m. on the W&L campus.
“Thumbelina” will be presented at Keller Theatre in two performances on Feb. 12 at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. Tickets are required.
The all-male dance group will perform their delightful parodies of great ballet classics at the Lenfest Center for the Arts on Feb. 15.
Performances will occur Dec. 2-5 in the Keller Theatre on the W&L campus. Tickets are required. 
The W&L Repertory Dance Company will perform ‘W&L Dancers Create…’ Nov. 11-13 at 7:30 p.m. each night.
Tickets for the 2022 season can be purchased online using a credit card or in-person at the Lenfest Center box office beginning Nov. 30.
Holden, an actor and puppeteer who hosts "The Joshua Show," will lead the masterclass on Nov. 8 at W&L.
W&L presents a staged reading of Will Arbery’s “Heroes of the Fourth Turning” in the Johnson Theatre on the W&L campus on Oct. 21-23 at 7:30 p.m.
Professor Davies received the National Dance Education Organization 2021 Outstanding Dance Education Researcher Award.
The Community-Based Learning Fellows Program intends to deepen the high-impact practice and pedagogy of community-based learning at W&L.
The performances will take place live and online on May 20 and 21 at 2:30 p.m.
Ramonah Gibson '20 has received a Fulbright United Kingdom (U.K.) Partnership Award to complete her master's degree in creative writing scriptwriting at the University of East Anglia.
"Intimate Violence," a documentary about domestic violence by W&L professor Stephanie Sandberg and junior Nolan Zunk, has been recognized by three film festivals.
On April 9 and 10, W&L will stream its production of "BURN" featuring a large ensemble of talented student actors and directed by Jemma Levy, assistant professor of theater.
The cast and crew of W&L’s upcoming Bentley Musical, “Little Women,” tackled a host of pandemic-related challenges to produce a film version of the show that will be screened for audiences March 30-April 2. 
Highlights include live performances of works written from artists and scholars nationwide.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company performance will stream for free online on March 25 and 26 at 7 p.m., March 27 at 6 p.m. and March 28 at 2 p.m.
In the latest episode of the Lifelong Learning podcast, Mish talks about his passion for theater, how musicals can be reinvented to account for changing times, and his experiences connecting students and alumni. 
The university’s performance will be streamed online beginning March 30.
Bioh's hit comedy "School Girls; Or, The African Mean Girls Play" will be screened online March 16, and a virtual talk by Bioh will occur March 18.
Elliot Reza Emadian ’17 will teach a virtual master class in screendance, a form that merges cinematography and choreography.
The screening will be free and open to the public to view online. A discussion with the film’s creators will follow the screening.
The award-winning W&L Repertory Dance Company will perform W&L Dancers Create … 2020 virtually on Nov. 5 and 6 at 7:30 p.m. and Nov. 7 at 2 p.m.
In October, Washington and Lee University will present Tony Award winner and five-time Tony Award nominee Laura Benanti in two streamed events.
The performance will run Oct. 15-18, and it is free and open to the public to watch via livestream.
Six accomplished artists will give virtual master classes for the Washington and Lee community this academic year, covering a wide range of dance styles, from hip-hop to K-pop.
Professor Stephanie Sandberg and Nolan Zunk ’22 co-directed “Intimate Violence,” which will be screened at Hull’s Drive-in to raise money for Project Horizon.
No tickets are required for the production, which will be performed at Blackfriars Playhouse in Staunton on Sept. 12 and streamed live in cinema quality. 
Chris Johnson ’00 uses his camera to document the COVID-19 crisis.
Working in Italy, starring in theater productions and being involved in Generals' Unity are just a few of the experiences that have made W&L a great fit for Win Gustin '20.
Despite a COVID-abbreviated run, the cast of W&L's "EVERYBODY" celebrates the "positive, self-affirming experience" of putting on the show. 
When the 25 members of W&L’s Repertory Dance Company were dispersed by COVID-19, director Jenefer Davies found a creative way for them to perform together again.
A new play by Professor Domnica Radulescu gives voice to local immigrants.
Writer Branden Jacobs-Jenkins, who based this play on the anonymous 15th-century "Everyman," presents a new take on an old story and the old question of what happens when we cross over to the other side.
“Considering Matthew Shepard” tells the now infamous true story and aftermath of the kidnapping, torture and murder of Matthew Shepard near Laramie, Wyoming, in 1998. Tickets are required for the performance.
 In 2021, students will have the opportunity to study in Ghana for both Winter and Spring Terms.
Washington and Lee University presents the American Shakespeare Center’s “The Grapes of Wrath” on Jan. 25.
Snyder is a journalist known for her works on the topic of domestic violence.
Tickets to the show can be ordered online or at the box office.
 Call the Lenfest Center box office today at 540-458-8000 to reserve tickets.
The team won the Mentor Award at the Adrenaline Film Project.
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream” is a tale built on multiple storylines that interfere with each other and create an irresistible web of mayhem and mischief.
 The group will light up the stage with their traditionally Zimbabwean music ranging from genres such as Afro Jazz and Gospel music. 
The grant will help fund a project to bring professors from the six ACS dance departments to participating campuses and create a model for shared teaching.
With the support of faculty and fellow students, Charlotte Cook '19 acted in seven theater productions at W&L while juggling a major, two minors and other extracurricular activities.
In Professor Rob Mish’s Spring Term class, students take on virtually every aspect of creating a fully staged theatrical production. 
“The House of Yes” is presented through special arrangement with Dramatists Play Service.
W&L students and faculty, as well as members of the Rockbridge Ballet, will participate in the event.
The partnership will bring the company’s national tour and on-site workshops to W&L’s campus.
The program will include multifaceted dance works created by nationally renowned choreographers, as well as new aerial dance technology.
Finch will give a public talk on March 20 at 4:30 p.m. on the main floor of Leyburn Library on the W&L campus. 
“The Cherry Orchard” is the final full play written by Anton Chekhov, who is considered by many to be the father of modern drama.
BodyVox comes to Lexington for a one-night performance at the Keller Theatre at 7:30 p.m. on Jan. 10.
The performance will take place on Jan. 24 at 7:30 p.m. in the Keller Theatre on the Washington and Lee University campus.
This production is open to the public, but tickets are required. 
Washington Term, study abroad opportunities and internships—including one with the Philadelphia Eagles—have helped to shape Jason Renner's plans for the future.
Staff and students in the costume shop at Lenfest Center have been hard at work creating fabulous costumes for this upcoming W&L production.
 The show runs Oct. 25-27 at 7:30 p.m., and Oct. 28 at 2 p.m. in Keller Theatre on the W&L campus.
Join members of the W&L choral program for a Parents and Family Weekend choral concert on Sept. 28, at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
Take a peek behind the Lenfest curtain for 2018-19.
This summer, Davis Straske '19 is researching children's play in psychology professor Megan Fulcher's Gender Development Lab. 
Jenefer Davies, associate professor of dance and theater, will be among approximately 25 fellows focusing on their own creative projects at the working retreat.
Shapley Davis '18 produced and premiered his own short film, and he hopes to continue making films as he heads off to USC's film school after graduation.
ODK inducted four honorary and seven student initiates
Che Malambo comes to the Keller stage for a one-night performance on April 26.
Washington Break gave students a chance for learning and personal development, as well as all-out fun.
“The Mountaintop” comes to the Keller stage for a one-night performance.
Her poem "Nasty Woman" and performance were the inspiration for a student-created dance.
Professor Jenefer Davies talks about her new book on aerial dance and the physical and artistic challenges of working against gravity.
Majo Bustamante '18 was a marketing and communications intern for NASA Automotriz, the company that owns the rights to sell Ford and Volkswagen in San Jose, Costa Rica.
Jenefer Davies will talk about her recent book, “Aerial Dance: A Guide to Dance with Rope and Harness.”
Performances will run March 1-6.
Students play a key role in creating the visual styling for upcoming productions by the theater department. 
“James and the Giant Peach” follows the story of James, a forgotten and lonely child, played by Arthur Love ’18.
Students and alumni members of the award-winning W&L Repertory Dance Company will perform in NYC the last weekend in Jan.
Jordan Goldstein's Washington and Lee journey can be followed through her love of music, her adventures on the stage — and the length of her hair. 
The stand-out, 10-member ensemble is praised for its confident execution of a wide range of styles. 
The performance will be comprised of work choreographed, designed and performed by students.
The event is a fundraiser for the W&L Chapter of the National Honor Society of Dance Arts.
Sandberg’s adaptation follows one character as he grapples with the unnerving grip Big Brother, the overpowering political party, has on Oceania.
The show will run Thursday, Oct. 26 through Sunday, Oct. 29.
W&L's Theater, Dance and Film Studies, along with the Department of Music, present the Robert O. and Elizabeth M. Bentley fall musical, “The Addams Family, A New Musical.”
Students practiced stage magic, sculpted severed fingers and whipped up batches of fake blood in a Spring Term course on special effects for the theater.
Dancer, choreographer, musician, mathematician: Elliot Emadian '17 has many roles, both on and off the stage. 
Free performances will take place at Wilson Hall at 3:30 p.m. on May 18 and 11 a.m. on May 19.
The Lenfest Center for the Arts presents “Judgment at Nuremberg” by the L.A. Theatre Works (LATW), a one-night performance in the Lenfest’s Keller Theater on April 25 at 7:30 p.m.
Marquita Robinson ’10 loves the uncertainty of life as a sitcom writer for “New Girl.”
Dana Gary, whose first EP is recorded, produced and publicized by a student-run record label, will present songs at SSA.
The Washington and Lee University’s Department of Theatre, Dance and Film Studies presents the W&L Repertory Dance Company’s winter concert in a program of multifaceted dance works created by nationally renowned choreographers.
The Washington and Lee Department of Theater, Dance, and Film Studies presents  “Dracula” on Feb. 9 and 11 at 7:30 p.m.; Feb. 10 at 10 p.m.; and Feb. 12 at 2 p.m. in the Keller Theater, Lenfest Center.
A new exhibit-installation, directed by Stephanie Sandberg, will be on display in McCarthy Gallery of Holekamp Hall at the Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics beginning Jan. 26.
Through the generosity of the Ruth E. Flournoy Theater Endowment, the Washington and Lee Department of Theater, Dance, and Film Studies will present Little Matchstick Factory’s “The Other Mozart,” written and performed by Sylvia Milo.
Complexions Contemporary Ballet comes to the Lenfest Center for a one-night engagement on Jan. 11.
Somehow, in addition to all of his coursework and extracurricular activities, Elliot Emadian has found the time to write, record and release his premiere album.
Matthew Reichel '17 didn't expect to be cast as Edward in Washington and Lee's production of "Sense and Sensibility," but now he is embracing the part.
Alana DeJoseph ’92 is fulfilling her dream of creating a documentary history of the Peace Corps.
On Nov. 10-12, the award-winning Washington and Lee Repertory Dance Company will perform "W&L Dancers Create….”
Taylor Gulotta '17 discusses the challenges and rewards of stage managing the fall 2016 Bentley Musical "The Theory of Relativity."
The new musical, inspired by the actual stories of the millennial generation, celebrates the connections that unite and define us. .
The new musical, inspired by the actual stories of the millennial generation, celebrates the connections that unite and define us.
Stephanie Sandberg's play "Stories in Blue: A Pilgrimage to Heal Human Trafficking"debuts this week at ArtPrize in Grand Rapids, MI. Sandberg, assistant professor of theater at Washington and Lee, was interviewed about the play on NPR's Stateside program.
Actress and producer Paten Hughes’ dream role would be to play Hillary Clinton. “I find her incredibly interesting,” she said in an interview with The Tulcan Times.  In the meantime, the recent W&L French and theater graduate has another project that launched Sept. 9 — “Heirloom,” the debut of a nine-part rom-com web series on Vimeo.
Michael Bronstein '15 and T.J. Fisher '15 study the evolution of the depiction of chaos in art and neuroscience.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Theater, Dance and Film archive.