The Critical Language Scholarship Program funds a summer of overseas language and cultural immersion.
Markley will start their role in the Japanese Exchange and Teaching (JET) Program by early August 2023.
The Museums at W&L invites visitors to reflect on “Born of Fire: Contemporary Japanese Women Ceramic Artists,” on display through April 29.
This exhibit is free and open to the public, with a scheduled reception and lecture by curator and scholar Jacqueline Chao on March 8 at 5 p.m.
The Weinstein Scholar annual program invited students to take a culinary trip around the world without leaving the Washington and Lee campus.
Six undergraduate students received Critical Language Scholarships, which will provide them the opportunity to study language intensively during summer 2022.
Approximately 70% of students participate in an abroad program during their time at W&L.
Debris from the aftermath of the Hiroshima bombing found its way to W&L’s Special Collections, where it heightened one class’s understanding of a powerful Japanese novel.  
Professor Yumiko Naito’s Spring Term class, Cool Japan: Manga, Business Etiquette, Language and Culture, approaches learning in a delicious and hands-on way.
Thanks to an exchange program funded by the Japanese government, a group of W&L students spent Washington Break immersed in the culture of Japan—and welcomed Kanazawa University students to W&L one month later.
Washington Break at W&L is about exploration, whether that discovery involves Texas mountaintops, Japanese culture or career opportunities in New York.
W&L's Chanoyu Tea Society will host their annual Martin Luther King, Jr. tea ceremony on Jan. 21
Elizabeth McDonald heads to Japan, Emily Austin to Indonesia and Riley Ries to Kyrgyzstan.
The title of Bello’s talk is: “A Bug-eyed View of Environmental History.”
There will be three seatings on Mar. 3 at 1 p.m., 1:30 p.m. and 2 p.m. and tickets are free.
W&L's Chanoyu Tea Society will host their second annual Martin Luther King, Jr. tea ceremony on Jan. 15
Lee Sommerfeldt '18 found a home away from home in a honky-tonk in the heart of Tokyo.
JASC is a student-exchange program, initiated in 1934 by university students concerned by the breakdown of bilateral relations prior to World War II.
Sierra Noland and Tara Cooper received Critical Language Scholarships sponsored by the U.S. Department of State.
LaPointe, who says his personal motto is "being genuine goes a long way," is a world traveler, professional debater, and Johnson Scholar.
For World Thinking Day, W&L's foreign language teaching assistants led local Girl Scouts in a variety of internationally themed activities.
W&L's Chanoyu Tea Society will host a Martin Luther King Jr. tea ceremony on Jan. 16, 2017 in the Senshin'an Tea Room, Watson Pavilion.
Washington and Lee University this year welcomes seven foreign language teaching assistants.
Michika Nakada is one of seven foreign language teaching assistants at W&L this year.
Meet Jordan LaPointe '17, an East Asian Languages and Literatures major with a sense of adventure. A lifelong dream comes true in Japan.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Japanese archive.