Hundreds of W&L students, faculty and staff came together to witness the astronomical event.
Scott’s passion for the environment carries over from the classroom to opportunities on campus and beyond.
The voice recital will be held on April 12 at 8 p.m.
The student ensemble will be joined by the Rockbridge County High School Jazz Ensemble in their April 11 performance.
These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university.
The opportunity to take a wide variety of classes has expanded Kramer's horizons.
The weekend’s seminar will feature Tess Gunty discussing her debut novel, “The Rabbit Hutch.”
The campus community will promote sustainability and environmental advocacy with various events throughout the month of April.
Starting in July, Bishop will participate in a year-long cultural immersion program in Germany.
A Washington Break trip to New York City opened students’ eyes to future possibilities in theater.
The former executive director of ArtPower at the University of California, San Diego will begin his new role in July.
The ensemble will perform at W&L’s Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts on April 7.
The April 4 showcase is hosted by W&L’s Connolly Center for Entrepreneurship.
The April 6 gathering marks the restoration of “The Foundation” on the university’s campus, originally part of the historic Liberty Hall Academy property.
Leading Campus Kitchen, a student-run organization focused on addressing food insecurity, has been a rewarding experience.
University Provost Lena Hill addressed new members of ODK during their spring induction ceremony.
The April 8 performance will also feature the winners of W&L’s Concerto-Aria Contest.
The senior thesis exhibition will be on view April 1-12.
Washington and Lee's Generals Activities Board has taken a dynamic approach to bringing the student body together through live music.
W&L will celebrate the global event on April 13 in the McCarthy Gallery.
Lynch’s soprano recital will be held on April 6 at 8 p.m.
A meeting with a Broadway legend allowed engineering major Zaria Daniels ’26 to take her vocal talents to Cuba.
The Critical Language Scholarship Program funds a summer of overseas language and cultural immersion.
Kogan’s piano recital will be held on March 24 at 3 p.m.
Baker Amos will discuss the evolutions of ethics in communications in her March 26 lecture.
The first-year student says the Outing Club and W&L's proximity to great hiking and kayaking spots were a big draw.
Thomas’s piano recital will be held on March 29 at 8 p.m.
Performances of the high school samurai tale run April 3-5.
Hafsa Oubou’s essay “Churches Can, Mosques Can’t” appears in the January edition of Canopy Forum.
The assistant professor of French will utilize the scholarship to perform research in Paris.
W&L’s Phi Beta Kappa chapter named the Phi Beta Kappa J. Brown Goehring Sophomore Award in his honor.
The professor and pollster will discuss applied sociology methods in her March 19 talk.
Nelson will deliver a lecture on “Where Math Meets Imagination” on March 19.
The sustainable farmer’s talk will be held on March 19.
W&L's Office of Career and Professional Development gave students the opportunity to network and explore potential career paths over Washington Break.
Akbar will read from his debut novel “Martyr!” at the March 14 event.
Holly Pickett’s book explores the stories of several serial converts in early modern England.
The performance will take place March 28 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center’s Wilson Concert Hall.
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join W&L faculty to discuss their teaching, research and passion projects.
The art specialist’s talk will be held on March 25 at 5:30 p.m.
On March 22, the University Provost will address 51 new initiates of W&L’s Alpha Circle of ODK.
Chris Dobbins officially assumed the position at the organization’s 2024 conference last month.
Washington and Lee’s Center for International Education awarded deBuchananne funding to study Arabic at the University of Jordan this summer. 
Dennie will present her research on “Southern Black Feminisms at the Turn of the Century” March 20 in the Watson Galleries. 
Stillo’s lecture will be held March 15 in the Harte Center Gallery.
The iconic myth comes to life March 21-22 in Wilson Concert Hall.
W&L’s Community Grants Committee will evaluate proposals in March 2024.
“Myth, Magic, and Madness” will feature a dynamic lineup of creative workshops, dramatic readings and staged productions March 21-22.
Environmental humanities classes introduced Hudson to new ideas on how humans interact with the world.
Hart’s violin recital will be held on March 17 at 3 p.m.
The Harte Center for Teaching and Learning is bringing student voices to a new podcast designed to share perspectives on transitioning to college life.
The award-winning ensemble’s performances will run March 14-16.
Liz Mira Santi ’24 came to W&L as a Gunn Scholar in 2023, and her time on campus has expanded her worldview and reinforced her ambitions.
Jessica Pachuca ’25 and Gabe Miller ’25 will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Carnegie Mellon University this summer.
Washington and Lee’s library staff share their recommendations for your next trip to the University Library.
Anthony Edwards’ article focuses on the 19th-century Orientalist Gregory M. Wortabet.
The first-year biology professor co-authored a paper titled “Sponge-derived matter is assimilated by coral holobionts.” 
The esteemed Buddhist philosopher will host a talk in Stackhouse Theater on March 7.
Laura Murambadoro ’26 brings varied interests, a collaborative leadership style and a passion for community engagement to W&L’s campus.
The “Breaking Bad” actor will speak on March 14 at 7 p.m. in the University Chapel.
The W&L professor of politics will present on this year’s Nobel Peace Prize winner, Narges Mohammadi, on March 8 in Leyburn 128.
Mauricio Betancourt is an assistant professor of environmental studies.
This year’s symposium will take place March 8-9 and address the nation’s opioid crisis and the ethical considerations it raises.
The ensemble concludes a performance tour with its March 5 concert at the Lenfest Center.
The March 12 performance in Wilson Concert Hall will feature W&L’s University Singers, Glee Club and Cantatrici.
The public reading will take place March 6 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.
With medical school on the horizon, Tyler embraces many opportunities such as research fellowship, studying abroad and sorority life.
Generals’ mentor garners top conference honor after leading both sports to conference titles.
This year’s event raised more than $10,000 to support the Campus Kitchen’s hunger-fighting project.
George Bent is the Sidney Gause Childress Professor of Art History.
“W&L After Class,” now entering its fifth season, invites listeners to join conversations with W&L’s expert faculty about their teaching, research and passion projects.
W&L holds a special place in the hearts of its alumni.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company’s alumni-student dance performance in New York City’s Center for Performance Research returned after a four-year hiatus.
Washington and Lee was ranked third among the baccalaureate institutions recognized by the Fulbright Program.
W&L’s assistant director of academic resources completed a rigorous program to earn the International Coaching Federation’s ACC certification.
W&L alumni’s Fulbright experiences expand their worldviews and shape their post-graduate careers.
Jonathan Gingerich will deliver the keynote address at the virtual conference on Feb. 17.
Ford Scott '25 enjoys the intersection of technology and the humanities and has furthered his interests through independent study and internships. 
The Human Library, a collaboration between the Mudd Center for Ethics and Leyburn Library, brought the W&L community together in conversation.
Chang, an urban artist and designer, will give a lecture on Feb. 19 at 5 p.m.
Washington and Lee students are applying their accounting skills in the community as part of the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance program. 
The Chilean activist’s talk will be held Feb. 12 at 5 p.m.
Cohen’s talk, “Music as Witness: a Composer Commemorates the Holocaust,” will be held at 4 p.m. on Feb. 13 in Hillel 101.
The Feb. 10 event will include performances and a dinner.
The W&L faculty duo will perform on Feb. 18 at 3 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
Rigney’s talk will be held Feb. 5 at 5 p.m.
A reception in Lykes Atrium will follow the band’s Feb. 17 performance in Wilson Concert Hall.
The assistant professor of history will hold her talk on Feb. 7 at noon in the Harte Center Gallery.
The article focuses on the geology and topology behind optimal shapes.
The interactive exhibition will run from Feb. 13 through March 25.
This year’s Black FLEX conference theme is “Around the Clock.”
The New Zealand-based choreographer will teach a master class for the campus community on Jan. 30.
The ensemble’s Feb. 10 performance is sponsored by the university’s Concert Guild.
The Feb. 11 performance will be followed by a reception.
‘Wes Bound: The Genius of Wes Montgomery’ will begin airing nationwide Feb. 1.
‘White before whiteness in the late Middle Ages’ will launch via Zoom on Jan. 25 from 5-6:30 p.m.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Five-Star Distinguished Alumni Award winners
The engineering professor will perform research related to gastrointestinal motility over the next three years in New Zealand.
Newly promoted faculty members will present their research in a PechaKucha format on Jan. 30.
Washington and Lee’s chapter of Remote Area Medical takes students to remote rural areas to provide medical services and gain valuable practical experience along the way.
Cleckley, assistant professor of architecture and design at the University of Virginia, will give a lecture on Feb. 1 at 5 p.m.
All proceeds from the Feb. 4 event will support the Campus Kitchen at W&L’s Backpack Program.
Washington and Lee University’s Special Collections and Archives has been working with the 2024 Mock Convention to debut an exhibit showcasing extraordinary items from past conventions.
The current director of the Center for Teaching and Learning at Quinnipiac University will begin his new role effective June 1.
Professor and collection strategist named a Library Journal Reviewer of the Year 2023.
The Museums at W&L invite the public to explore its exhibitions and collections with select programming through May.
Stephanie Sandberg, assistant professor of theater, will discuss this year’s Nobel Prize in literature on Wednesday, Jan. 31 at 12:15 p.m.
Martin Baron’s talk will be held on Feb. 13 and is open to the public.
Wei, a stage combat instructor, will host a workshop on Jan. 30 at 5 p.m.
Campus Kitchen’s annual event series continues with its Winter Term 2024 lineup, examining the ways in which food systems interact with issues of social justice.
The W&L community is invited to participate in the public art project, on view in Leyburn Library beginning Jan. 11.
The upcoming screening is the second installment in the DeLaney Center’s ongoing film series and will be shown on Thursday, Jan. 18 at 5 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater.
The Jan. 24 performance will take place in the Lenfest Center’s Keller Theatre.
The Jan. 21 performance will include selected readings and musical reflections.
W&L is one of 15 private colleges and universities to receive the 2024 Carnegie Community Engagement Classification.
The Jan. 20 choral performance is sponsored by the Concert Guild.
Edelman’s talk will be held on Jan. 17 and is sponsored by the Blue Ridge Mile Clinic.
The professor of cultural anthropology will serve a dual role leading Community-Based Learning and the SHECP Consortium.
Kumudu Gamage will use the funds for professional development and summer research.
Washington and Lee University’s Community Grants Committee evaluated fifteen proposals in November and made fourteen grants totaling over $24,000 to non-profit organizations in Lexington and Rockbridge County. 
Keuhner helped establish a memorial at Jordan’s Point dedicated to veterans killed in the line of duty and their families.
‘Salvador Dalí: Les Chants de Maldoror’ features original etchings from the surrealist and will run from Jan. 11 through Feb. 8.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
First-year earth and environmental science professor co-authored a paper titled “Monogenetic volcanoes as windows into transcrustal mush.”
The Department of Earth and Environmental Geoscience provides students with the chance to expand their learning beyond the classroom by attending top national conferences.
Yurechko ’24 is the university’s first Marshall Scholar.
Josh Rassin ’24 will begin his two-year placement with a startup company following graduation.
Anthony Edwards illustrates his case study that focuses on Khalīl al-Khūrī, a central figure of the Nahḍa.
Professor Lisa Greer has been taking students to Belize since 2011 to study the thriving reef corals located there.
Mohamed Kamara’s book titled “Colonial Legacies in Francophone African Literature” hits bookshelves Dec. 15.
The mathematics professor discusses the differences between various necktie knots.
The associate professor of art history will serve as the Mudd Center Director for three years beginning July 1, 2024.
The classics professor’s Ancient Graffiti Project digital resource was also mentioned in the article that focuses on ancient graffiti works.
Washington and Lee’s Interfraternity Council, National Panhellenic Conference and National Pan-Hellenic Council focus on community-building, education and fundraising throughout the year.
The Spanish professor appears as a faculty expert in the film that debuted at the Virginia Film Festival last month. 
Blue Marble published a conversation with Aly Colón about providing balanced coverage of a crisis.
In May, Mary Hipp ’90 said being a member of the second class of women undergraduates at W&L taught her a lot— although she didn’t realize it at the time.
Washington and Lee students are making a dynamic impact in the community through National Pan-Hellenic Council organizations.
Megan Dufault ’24 is studying the risks that environmental pollutants pose to fetal development.
The Dec. 1 symposium will address issues of Southern race relations, culture and politics.
Tsang’s talk will be held on Dec. 1 at 5 p.m.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company’s performances will run Nov. 30 through Dec. 2.
Elizabeth Knapp serves as director of the Johnson Program and professor of earth and environmental geoscience.
Tickets to the Dec. 4-5 performances can be obtained with a non-perishable food donation to benefit Campus Kitchen at W&L.
The Dec. 7 lessons and carols program in the University Chapel is free and open to the public and will also be streamed online.
After graduating with a double degree in English and studio art, Gabriela Gomez-Misserian ’21 took her talents to Garden & Gun Magazine.
The Washington and Lee community gathered on Friday, Nov. 10 to honor the military service of current and retired members of the staff, faculty and student body.
’Tis the season for holiday events on campus and in the local community! Check out what’s happening and make your plans to ring in the holiday season.
An award of $9,500 will support the center’s Screen to Square film series.
W&L’s recent staging of ‘Speech & Debate’ brought its cast, crew and audience an opportunity to engage with an innovative, collaborative approach to theater.
First-year biology professor co-authored a paper titled “Microbiome environmental shifts differ between two co-occurring octocoral hosts.” 
The performance will take place Nov. 16 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center’s Wilson Concert Hall.
Mathen’s talk “Dilemmas of Democracy” will be held Nov. 13.
Kaplan’s talk “Between Empire and Anarchy from the Mediterranean to China” will be held Nov. 8.
Kyle Friend, associate professor of chemistry and biochemistry, will discuss this year’s Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine on Nov. 8 in Leyburn Library’s Harte Center.
The ensemble will perform Nov. 11 at 7:30 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
The student ensemble will be joined by the Vosbein Magee Big Band in their Nov. 9 performance.
Karena Gill is a visiting assistant professor of earth and environmental geoscience. 
The community is encouraged to participate and donate to support Campus Kitchen’s programming, which kicks off Nov. 5.
Hendren, a professor at Northeastern University, will give a lecture on Nov. 9 at 5 p.m.
This year’s first film, “Southern Hoops: A History of SEC Basketball,” will be shown Nov. 4 in Stackhouse Theater.
The Elmes Pathfinder Prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
Jenefer Davies authored “The Art of Dance Composition: Writing the Body,” an introduction to modern dance composition.
The solo exhibition will run from Nov. 1 through Dec. 8, 2023.
The performance will take place Nov. 6 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center’s Wilson Concert Hall.
The ensemble will perform at W&L’s Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts on Nov. 5.
Tom McClain, assistant professor of physics, will discuss this year’s Nobel Prize in Physics on Wednesday, Nov. 1.
The production runs from Nov. 1-4 in Johnson Theatre on the W&L campus.
The Oct. 29 event celebrates the history and culture of NPHC organizations.
Arabic professor Anthony Edwards recently published a paper titled “Becoming the Muʿallim: how tradition and innovation made a Nahḍa icon.”
Delaney will discuss the scientific imaging of paintings in his Oct. 30 lecture.
The Oct. 28 concert is sponsored by the Pickens World Music series.
Krzysztof Jasiewicz authored “Roads to and from Democracy” from a collection of papers written over the course of 40 years.
Three Washington and Lee University graduates received scholarships from the National Leadership Honor Society to support graduate and professional study.
The Bloomberg reporter was recognized for her work on investigative podcast “In Trust.”
Jennifer Blumenthal-Barby, a professor at Baylor College of Medicine, will give a lecture on Oct. 26 at 5 p.m.
The Oct. 18 event is open to W&L students, faculty and staff.
W&L’s Community Grants Committee will evaluate proposals in early November 2023.
Whitted’s lecture on Oct. 19, titled “All-New, All-Negro: Orrin C. Evans and the Golden Age of Comics,” is free and open to the public.
The performance in Wilson Concert Hall will feature W&L’s University Singers, Glee Club and Cantatrici.
Lesley Wheeler’s essay “Ghost Tour” was featured in a guest-edited folio for the Summer 2023 issue.
The professor has also published two literary works in recent months. 
The pianist’s Oct. 21 performance is sponsored by the Concert Guild.
Patwardhan’s talk “What I See with My Eyes: Tarabai Shinde on Men’s Blame of Women” will be held Oct. 17 at 5 p.m.
Greub will explore physical and emotional responses to Twombly’s works in his Oct. 16 lecture in Northen Auditorium.
Lucy Worthy ’24 assisted in the research and helped publish the results alongside two W&L alumni. 
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Young Alumni Award winners
George Aye, co-founder and director of innovation at Greater Good Studio, will give a lecture on Oct. 9 at 5 p.m.
The Oct. 9 performance will take place in the Lenfest Center’s Keller Theatre.
W&L’s new offsite solar array, now fully operational, represents the university’s biggest leap to date toward an energy-independent future. 
“Mohammad Omer Khalil: Musings,” co-curated by four Washington and Lee students as part of a seminar course in museum studies, will be on display in the Watson Galleries Sept. 28, 2023 through June 1, 2024.
Campus Kitchen’s annual event series examines the ways in which food systems interact with issues of social justice.
Leah Naomi Green’s essay on Kaveh Akbar’s poem “The Miracle” is anthologized in “Raised by Wolves.”
W&L’s Summer Research Scholars program gives students hands-on experience in collaborative research with faculty mentors.
The public reading will take place Oct. 3 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium inside Leyburn Library.
Lauren Shelby ’23 will be pursuing her master’s degree at New York University.
The premiere event will be followed by a student-led discussion about their experiences and the creative journey in producing the films.
The chamber ensemble’s performance is sponsored by the Concert Guild.
A reception will follow the Sept. 29 performance in Keller Theatre. 
Washington and Lee's Leading Edge program welcomed the Class of 2027 to campus with dynamic programs designed to build community.
Karena Gill handles all aspects of the event slated to be held Sept. 27-30 in Washington, D.C.
Katie Yurechko ’24 presented research related to content creators circumventing TikTok’s content moderation algorithms.
Brainard’s talk “Does Artificial Intelligence Make Human Creativity Obsolete” will be held Sept. 26 at 5 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.
The university’s first-year class represents 26 countries and 43 U.S. states and territories.
Sandy de Lissovoy was one of 22 fellows to participate in the prestigious residency program at Mt. San Angelo.
Andrew Tartakovsky ’23 received a Fulbright grant to teach English in Azerbaijan.
The Comunidad Latina Estudiantil student group has planned and organized numerous events in collaboration with the Office of Inclusion and Engagement.
Kick off the 2023-24 season with W&L’s choral ensembles on Oct. 6 at 8 p.m. and instrumental ensembles on Oct. 7 at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
The two-day event will be held on campus Sept. 29-30.
Professor Wendy Castenell kicks off the series on Sept. 19 at noon in Leyburn Library.
A reception in Lykes Atrium will follow the ensemble’s Sept. 23 performance in Wilson Concert Hall.
Charlotte Dross ’23 is working in public relations as a postgraduate intern at Jackson Spalding.
A total of 20 new faculty are joining the university this year.
A total of 25 new instructors join the W&L community.
The Washington and Lee University community will commemorate the tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001, with a memorial service and the placing of 2,977 American flags on Cannan Green.
Washington and Lee students gain new perspectives after internships through the Shepherd Program.
Washington and Lee students explored the world this summer thanks to grant funding opportunities through the Center for International Education.
Caraballo is one of 369 students from across the U.S. to receive the merit scholarship from the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Sadie Charles Calame ’23 is working as a construction lead for Teton Habitat for Humanity.
Annual Provost’s Lecture celebrates W&L faculty for excellence in scholarship and teaching.
Harris Hubbard ’23 will attend graduate school at Rutgers University Business School before joining Wells Fargo as an investment banking analyst.
De Zoysa is the university’s first recipient of the two-year scholarship for juniors interested in a public service career.
Robert Humston will assess over 30 years of data collected by the U.S. Forest Service within the George Washington and Thomas Jefferson National Forests.
The Museums at W&L invite the public to their opening reception for “Musings” on Sept. 28 at 6:30 p.m.
This summer, Washington and Lee students experienced life in London as part of an immersive program offered through the Williams School.
Tahri Phillips ’23 will be pursuing a master’s degree at the University of Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar.
Tickets for the entire season will be available to purchase beginning Sept. 11.
Matthew Loar serves as director of fellowships and student research.
The Oct. 5 event is free and open to the W&L community.
The W&L community is invited to the 2023 Convocation on the Front Lawn on Sept. 7 at 5:30 p.m.
“Ethics of Design” kicks off Sept. 21 with a keynote address by MIT Professor Danielle Wood.
The solo exhibition will run from Sept. 4 through Oct. 25 and kicks off the gallery’s fall season.
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join conversations with W&L's expert faculty about their teaching, research and passion projects.
Caroline Wise ’23 is working as a backcountry guide for St. Elias Alpine Guides in Alaska.
Myers serves as a commentator for the series “Dark Marvels,” offering the history behind some of the world’s most diabolical inventions.
Allie Stankewich ’23 will spend the summer in Tanzania before pursuing a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship in Uganda.
Leica Geosystems followed Bent and his team of W&L students on a day spent mapping the city of Florence. 
The donation will support the Campus Kitchen Backpack Program.
Blake Sanchez ’23 is working as a management consultant in the Public Health Segment at Guidehouse in Washington, D.C.
Washington and Lee is the only liberal arts college to be named among the top five institutions for producing Boren Scholarship recipients.
Ellie Penner ’23 received a Boren Scholarship to study Hindi in India.
Gabby Emge ’23 will be pursuing her J.D. at Harvard Law School.
Classics professor will use the fellowship to research his project “Annotated Amores” at the University of Cincinnati this spring.
W&L’s campus culture — from small classes to the Speaking Tradition — gave Lemon the communication skills and confidence to succeed.
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join conversations with W&L's expert faculty about their teaching, research and passion projects.
Washington and Lee’s Museum Artist-in-Residence Program welcomed photographer Stephanie Shih to campus in May to create new work based on the Museums’ art collection.
Emma Steinkraus’ exhibition “Princess Botticelli” opens June 29 at the 1969 Gallery in Tribeca
Weaver’s advice for current students: Take advantage of every opportunity and embrace respectful debate.
For Tilbor, W&L instilled a healthy curiosity and a lifelong love of learning.
W&L students in this Spring Term’s “Swedish Theater” course were immersed in culture during their three weeks in Stockholm, Sweden.
Aly Colón created and organized “Covering Faith and the Faithful” seminars for journalists in Los Angeles and New York City.
Gordon taught at W&L from 1974 to 2001.
Young learned the critical skills to excel at her job from the veteran journalists in Reid Hall.
Washington and Lee’s Class of 2023 includes nine recipients of the Certificate of International Immersion awarded by W&L’s Center for International Education.
Mengying Liu will use the funds to research high-throughput crystallographic mapping in the United Kingdom.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Stankewich has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Uganda.
Markley will start their role in the Japanese Exchange and Teaching (JET) Program by early August 2023.
Christy Childs ’26 and Griffin Conti ’26 will receive funding to study foreign languages this summer.
W&L celebrates its 236th undergraduate Commencement Thursday, May 25, at 10 a.m.
Graham appreciates how W&L empowers students to follow their passions.
Washington and Lee seniors David Onyejekwe ’23, Jake McCabe ’23 and Bailey Keel ’23 have created lasting connections with the local community as volunteer coaches for Lex Lax youth lacrosse.
All funds will support W&L students with Professor George Bent’s digital humanities project “Florence As It Was.”
Professor of Biology Robert Humston’s Spring Term course takes a deep dive into environmental problem-solving.
The May 23 event is free and open to the public.
Haydon credits the W&L community for inspiring him and guiding him toward success.
Professor of History Mikki Brock’s Spring Term course explores our fascination with the supernatural.
Reese was motivated by her summer research experience to pursue a career in medicine.
The David L. Boren Scholarship supports the intensive study of languages deemed important to U.S. interests.
The May 16 screening is the latest installment in the DeLaney Center’s ongoing film series.
The student-run production runs from May 14-16 in Johnson Theatre on the W&L campus.
Professors Nadia Ayoub and Kyle Friend, and students Jamal Magoti ’23, Maria Luzaran ’23, Cooper Lazo ’24 and Eman Muamar ’24 all contributed to the paper that appeared in the open science platform Frontiers.
Boyd’s piano recital will be held in person and via Livestream on May 17 at 7 p.m.
The Phi Beta Kappa chapter at Washington and Lee University welcomed 49 students into the prestigious honor society.
Katie Yurechko ’24 presented on how algorithm awareness impacts algospeak use on TikTok.
Margaret Anne Hinkle is an assistant professor of earth and environmental geoscience.
The DeLaney Center’s latest research project connects current students with a rich legacy.
Zoila Ponce de León’s chapter is titled “Health Care and the Public-Private Mix in Mexico, Chile, and Peru” and appears in the Latin American section of the publication.
Seay has been selected for the Goldwater Scholarship to support a research career in science, mathematics and engineering, and also earned the Udall Scholarship in the environmental category.
Talton has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English to the Roma student population in Hungary.
Boussy has been awarded a Fulbright-Nehru research grant to study Buddhist shrines and temples in India.
The university's Community Grants Committee has made 16 grants totaling more than $36,000 to non-profit organizations in Lexington and Rockbridge County.
Jana Hulsey ’25 and Jalen Todd ’25 will work with programs in Washington, D.C. for eight weeks over the summer. 
The faculty duo will perform at W&L’s Lenfest Center on May 14.
After choosing W&L off a gut feeling, Bishop says the campus already feels like home.
Students, faculty and staff are encouraged to sell unwanted items and donate any unsold items to benefit local nonprofit organizations. 
Melissa Kerin and Barton Myers will each receive $6,000 to support their research projects.
Bill Hamilton will utilize the grant to fund his ongoing research on ecosystem health in Yellowstone National Park.  
W&L neuroscience students recently partnered with an innovative art-making program offered at Kendal at Lexington.
Professor Dayo Abah will dive into leadership programming designed to support a transition into higher education leadership.
Lakpa Sherpa ’25 and Ignas Volcokas ’25 designed a personal learning assistant that utilizes the power of artificial intelligence.
“OPEN FLOWERS BEAR FRUIT” opens May 1 in the McCarthy Gallery in Holekamp Hall.
Marcos Perez is an assistant professor of sociology.
Barringer appreciates the learning experience he gained during his summer internship, both professionally and personally. 
Sharon Mendieta Ramirez ’23 has designed her W&L experience to prepare her for her career as an educator.
Rojas has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Mexico.
Barrow’s experience at W&L gave him the confidence to work through any challenge or opportunity.
Professor Eric Moffa and Jake Winston ’24 penned the article which appeared in The Social Studies Journal.
The public reading will take place May 1 at 7 p.m. in Northen Auditorium inside Leyburn Library.
Connor has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Germany.
Washington and Lee’s campus is thriving thanks to the hard work and dedication of a team that collaborates with Mother Nature year-round.
Zach Nix is the technology integration coordinator within ITS.
The retired U.S. ambassador’s talk, “Russia-Ukraine: The Conflict and the Context,” will be held in Northen Auditorium on April 26.
The Honorable J. Michael Luttig ’76 will visit campus May 8-9 to reflect on his career and discuss his views on recent challenges to democracy and the rule of law.
The weekend’s seminar will feature Amor Towles discussing his latest book, “The Lincoln Highway.”
The solo exhibition will run from April 24 to May 25 in Staniar Gallery inside Washington and Lee University’s Lenfest Center for the Arts.
Anne Rodgers '20, '23L writes about her experience using creativity and emotion in her work helping her client seek asylum.
For W&L alumni Kevin Green ’07 and Amanda Green ’06, nature and nurture go hand-in-hand.
Hongchu Fu offers a look into the Yuan Dynasty under Mongol Rule in “Three Yuan Plays by Yang Zi.”
The two-day conference in March provided a unique opportunity for students to conduct and share original research in a professional setting.
Hawley has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Spain.
Stonegate Guesthouse, recently purchased and renovated by Derek Hutton ’93, is a featured Lexington landmark of the Garden Club of Virginia’s 90th annual event.
The Leadership Excellence Awards give recognition and thanks to nominated students and organizations for their many efforts on W&L’s campus.
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join conversations with W&L's expert faculty about their teaching, research and passion projects.
Godsey has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Taiwan.
Tartakovsky has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Azerbaijan, his parents’ homeland.
Jillian Murphy is the study abroad coordinator.
Li is excited to take advantage of the personalized education W&L offers and to explore the Lexington-Rockbridge area.
Leah Naomi Green’s essay titled “Mourning Songs Are Love Songs” was excerpted from the anthology “Solastalgia: An Anthology of Emotion in a Disappearing World.”
Pernell has been awarded a Young Professional Journalist Program Award to conduct research and gain career experience in Germany.
Dixon has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Taiwan.
Jaden Keuhner discusses raising money for Gold Star Memorial in Rockbridge County.
Jackson Flower will share his research at The Virginia Commonwealth University on April 7.
Avvirin Gray, assistant professor of English at Washington and Lee University, is the winner of the 2023 Jean Feldman Poetry Prize.
Dylan Santella ’25 presented “Gender and The Face: Expanding Upon the Butlerian Model of Ethics” at the undergraduate conference held March 31 at Swarthmore College.
Mikki Brock is an associate professor of history.
Tobeason appreciates the balance she’s found at W&L as a student-athlete.
Sutherland's advice for current students: "Don’t take yourself too seriously!"
Jon Erickson’s papers are part of an ongoing research project studying non-invasive gastric mapping techniques. 
W&L will celebrate the global event on April 15 from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the Reeves Museum of Ceramics.
How a handwritten draft of one of the most significant defenses of religious freedom in American history was rediscovered in Lexington, Virginia.
Moye-Green will pursue a master’s degree in criminal justice and penal change at the University of Strathclyde.
Mott will pursue a master’s degree in digital media and society at Cardiff University.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Alumni Award winners
The campus community will promote sustainability and environmental advocacy with various events throughout the month of April.
Mock Convention made its Spring Kickoff event an informative preview of upcoming convention conversations.
Alvin Wheeler is the assistant director of dining operations.
With the final round of application decisions released on March 24, W&L’s newest class begins to take shape.
The Beinecke Scholarship Program provides funds for post-graduate study to students of unusual promise.
Professor Farr is a widely published authority on Great Britain and British foreign relations.
“We Love Life Whenever We Can” will be on display at W&L’s Leyburn Library April 1 through Dec. 8, 2023.
The Museums at W&L invites visitors to reflect on “Born of Fire: Contemporary Japanese Women Ceramic Artists,” on display through April 29.
Baluarte will teach in the Refugee Law Clinic and assist in the development of clinical legal education more broadly at the Iberoamericana University.
The April 6 program will feature the Michael Allen Trio and several student soloists.
Melissa Kerin is an associate professor of art history.
Kavanagh encourages current students to "never be afraid to reach out to the W&L network."
Nancy Reinhart '00 is a midwife and health care practitioner who empowers women and families during their pregnancy.
Philip Jefferson’s talk in Stackhouse Theater on March 27 is free and open to the public.
McLaughlin ’23 will present his senior voice recital on March 31 at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
Magoti’s summer internship allowed him to apply knowledge from his neuroscience classes while also exposing him to cutting-edge technology in the field.
Assistant Professor Margaret Anne Hinkle’s article is titled “Impacts of Sulfonic Acids on Fungal Manganese Oxide Production.”
Ellie Penner ’23, a Washington and Lee University senior, has received a Critical Language Scholarship (CLS) to study Bangla this summer in Kolkata, West Bengal, India.
Performance will take place April 3 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center’s Wilson Concert Hall.
The groups will honor Black composers with a series of performances March 30-April 1.
W&L President Emeritus Kenneth Ruscio addressed new members of ODK during their spring induction ceremony.
Appiah is a professor of philosophy and law at New York University and the author of numerous books.
Community-Based Learning’s collaboration with Concerned Citizens of Glasgow during Winter 2023 offer students an opportunity to help a community find its voice.
Mike Hepner serves as a laboratory technician for the biology department.
The residency, co-hosted by W&L and VMI, includes workshops on March 23 and a concert on March 24.
Quashie’s lecture on March 30, titled “Sentences and (Black) Beauty,” is free and open to the public.
A new Williams School facility and renovations to University Chapel and Sydney Lewis Hall among several projects on the horizon.
The fourth edition of “Comparative Politics” is a collaboration between faculty in W&L’s Department of Politics and Department of Sociology and Anthropology.
The University’s president emeritus will address 50 new initiates of W&L’s Alpha Circle of ODK. 
The W&L community event will be held on Tuesday, March 21, at 6 p.m. in W&L’s University Chapel.
Boston admires W&L’s Honor System and is inspired by the greater Rockbridge County community. 
Washington and Lee's Center for International Education awarded two students funding to study Arabic at the University of Jordan this summer.
McRae’s presentation “Waiting for Gödel” will be held in Chavis Hall on March 22.
Richard Weissbourd will give a virtual lecture on March 21 at 5 p.m. 
The March 23 program will feature the winner of this year’s concerto-aria contest.
W&L’s most recent museum exhibition, “Mother Clay: The Pottery of Three Pueblo Women,” brought new artists into the university’s collection and connected the campus community in unexpected ways. 
Laubscher will be recognized for over 25 years of service in the athletic communications profession.
Washington and Lee’s Philosophy Department will host a talk by Upol Ehsan ’13 on Monday, March 13 from 6-7:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
Whether it was inside the classroom or out and about on campus, Rebecca Dunn Piatt '16 looks back on her time at W&L fondly. 
Bernbaum is inspired by W&L’s emphasis on community-based learning.
CBL’s new initiative is an opportunity for faculty development, student collaboration and deepening partnerships with the surrounding community.
The ensemble will perform at W&L’s Lenfest Center on March 19.
The Elmes Pathfinder Prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
Katie Wall Podracky '05 painted the landscape of more than 40 state parks during the COVID-19 shutdown.
Adams’s talk “Ozymandian Histories: Monuments, Ruins, and Landscapes of Decline in America” will be held on March 14.
Tetiana Kozachanska ’26 is taking full advantage of her first year at Washington and Lee.
The campus community will recognize women’s achievements with various events throughout the month of March.
Peterson taught at W&L for more than 20 years. 
Beth Staples is an assistant professor of English and she serves as the editor of Shenandoah.
The campus-wide initiative highlights the relationship between university donations and the undergraduate student experience with a week-long series of events, March 6-9.
Davis’s summer internship reinforced his career aspirations as a neuroscience major.
Oluwakuyide will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at the University of Washington this summer.
The virtual conference on March 4 will feature students from across the country.
Student ensembles explore the hero’s journey at the March 14 performance.
The Generals’ 11th-year head coach garnered the award for the second straight year.
Irish Musician and Activist Breanndán Ó Beaglaoich to give keynote speech at conference showcasing original student research.
The show runs from March 9-11 in Keller Theatre on the W&L Campus.
This year’s symposium will take place March 3-4 and address corporate responsibility in times of armed conflict. 
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Five-Star Distinguished Alumni Awards winners
This exhibit is free and open to the public, with a scheduled reception and lecture by curator and scholar Jacqueline Chao on March 8 at 5 p.m.
Ferguson’s sessions on March 10 and 11 are part of Winter Term programming at the Museums at W&L.
The March 10 concert will feature the award-winning “Detroit’s queen of the blues.”
Céline Leboeuf, an associate professor of philosophy at Florida International University, will give a public lecture in Hillel 101 on March 9 at 4 p.m.
The ice cream entrepreneurs will speak on March 9 at 7 p.m. in the University Chapel. The event is open to the W&L community and tickets are required. 
Moran is inspired by W&L’s values and commitment to liberal arts education.
The new series, which launches Feb. 27, will focus on Southern race relations, culture and politics.
A reception in Lykes Atrium will follow the jazz ensemble’s March 4 performance in Wilson Concert Hall.
Dungy’s public reading will take place Feb. 28 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium inside Leyburn Library.
The Staniar Gallery at W&L will hold an exhibition of works by Adrienne Callander through March 17
CAP helps museums improve the care of their collections by providing support for a general conservation assessment of the museum’s objects and buildings.
Scott's advice for current students: "There is no one way to do college. Do it your way and make it count."
Terrence Johnson, professor of African American religious studies at Harvard University, will discuss his latest book on March 1.
Mark Coddington is an associate professor of journalism.
The March 1 screening of Jordan Peele’s film will be followed by a discussion facilitated by W&L English professors.
The ensemble concludes its global tour with its Feb. 28 concert at the Lenfest Center.
The grant funds a three-year study in collaboration with Pennsylvania State University and East Tennessee State University.
This year’s event raised $9,700 to support the Campus Kitchen at W&L’s Backpack Program.
Students in Professor Marisa Charley’s POV102 course helped local elementary school children tell stories this fall through photovoice research.
The scholarship provides young scholars with an immersive experience in Asia through which they can learn to "be comfortable being uncomfortable." 
Washington and Lee was ranked second among the baccalaureate institutions recognized by the Fulbright Program.
Professor Lisa Greer’s article focuses on the survival of coral reefs in the Caribbean.
Avalon Pernell ’23 credits the mentorship she received on campus as she launches her career in business journalism.
Seema Gajwani, a special counsel for juvenile justice reform at the D.C. Office of the Attorney General, will give a lecture on Feb. 9 at 5 p.m.
Nadia Ayoub, professor of biology, will discuss this year’s Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine on Wednesday, Feb. 8.
The Feb. 11 event celebrates the history and culture of NPHC organizations.
This year's Black FLEX conference theme is a Legacy of Excellence.
Mugo says that, above all, W&L taught her to "always be curious."
Villante, a geoscientist in Iceland, will discuss the current state of the climate technology sector on Feb. 6.
After nearly three decades of training, Laura Goodwin '99 accomplished her lifelong dream: to swim the English Channel.
Dan Johnson is the David G. Elmes Term Professor of Cognitive and Behavioral Science.
For more than 20 years, ESOL volunteers have participated in language and literacy work in the Lexington-Rockbridge area and beyond.
Professor Richard Bidlack will discuss the 2022 Nobel Peace Prize on Wednesday, Feb. 1.
Stulce chose W&L because of the university’s well-rounded approach to encouraging individual growth.
The playwright will host a screening of his play “Citizen James” and a playwriting workshop Feb. 14-15.
The cellist’s three-day residency is sponsored by the Concert Guild.
Etter plans to attend graduate school and pursue a career in mathematics.
Thompson taught at W&L for more than 30 years.
Professor Joel Kuehner’s article focuses on film flow inside corrugated pipes.
Writer and director LaKeisha Fleming ’95 is the founder of Vision 2:2 Productions.
The recital will be held in person and via Livestream on Feb. 5 at 3 p.m.
The program offers staff a 30-day leave, with full pay, to advance some aspect of their career and work at the university.
W&L’s distinctive summer programming helped Burks-Parra develop her personal and professional interests.
All proceeds from the Feb. 5 event will support the Campus Kitchen at W&L’s Backpack Program.
Ledesma’s voice recital will be held in person and via Livestream on Jan. 29 at 3 p.m.
The series, which highlights the range of post-graduate opportunities, features department alumni and kicks off Jan. 24.
First-year Johnson Scholar to offer preliminary research on foot-limb dominance and neuromuscular asymmetry in pediatric soccer players.
W&L’s choral conducting mentorship program helps students find and follow their passions through music and mentorship.
Two new ceramics exhibits, which spotlight women artists, open to the public Feb. 1.
Jeff Rahl is a professor and department head for earth and environmental geoscience.
Campus Kitchen’s annual event series continues with its Winter Term 2023 lineup, examining the many ways in which the food system interacts with social justice issues.
Gu looks forward to graduating in May and plans to help current W&L students as other alums have supported him during his time in college. 
Professor Adedayo Abah will travel to Tanzania to help build a master’s degree program in communications at the University of Dar es Salaam.
BirdieLight’s mission is to educate the public on the dangers of fentanyl in drugs and distribute life-saving tools to prevent overdose.
Tickets for the ensemble’s Jan. 21 performance can be ordered online or at the box office.
John Lysaker, a professor of philosophy at Emory University, will give a lecture on Jan. 30 at 5 p.m.
The monthly podcast explores Washington and Lee faculty's research, teaching and passion projects.
The New York Times investigative reporters will give a public talk on Jan. 24 at 5 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater, followed by a book signing.
The solo exhibition by sculptor Sam Blanchard is on view until Feb. 8.
Lilly credits the friendliness she encountered on campus as one of her top reasons for choosing W&L as her home. 
“Practical Symbolic Interactions in the Shrine of the South: Conversations with a Damn Yankee” is set to be released on Jan. 15.
Washington and Lee’s second annual Greek Leadership Institute provides students with foundational leadership skills and a chance to connect before formal recruitment begins.
Mazilu’s talk “A Physics Journey from Complex Systems to Simple Models” will be held in Northen Auditorium on Jan. 25.
A variety of events and lectures are planned for this year’s observance of MLK day.
Professor Genelle Gertz teamed with former student Pasquale Toscano ’16 to author “The Lost Network of Elizabeth Barton.”
Angela Sun is an assistant professor of philosophy.
Beth Staples’ fictional short story “Leaf Peepers” appeared in the publication’s Fall 2022 edition.
Wingard Cunningham joins W&L from College of Wooster, where she is the Mildred Foss Thompson Professor of English and dean for faculty development.
Anthony Edwards, Theodore Van Loan and Kameliya Atanasova were featured at the annual event. 
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate student recipients.
Community-Based Learning’s collaborations this fall offered students an opportunity to deepen community connections.
After evaluating 12 proposals in October, Washington and Lee University’s Community Grants Committee awarded seven grants totaling over $25,000 to nonprofit organizations in Lexington and Rockbridge County.
Sadie Charles Calame ’23 has built a well-rounded college experience through campus and community involvement.
Leah Naomi Green serves as visiting assistant professor of English and environmental studies.
Lozinskaya, a 2022 graduate, will receive a master’s degree in global affairs from Tsinghua University in China.
Sanchez plans to pursue graduate study in public policy after graduation.
Bill Benson ’92 worked on NASA’s Space Launch System which will enable astronauts to begin their journey into deep space.
The upcoming screening is the second installment in the DeLaney Center's ongoing film series.
Diego Millan’s recent article analyzes the centrality of jokes in the Chester Himes book “If He Hollers Let Him Go.”
Brinker makes her mark on Florence, Italy’s digital history.
No tickets are required for the Dec. 2 performance in Wilson Concert Hall.
Ocean voyages, sword fights, treasure hunts, rivalry, friendships and pirates are on display in this show based on the familiar novel by Robert Louis Stevenson.
’Tis the season for holiday events on campus and in the local community! Check out what’s happening and make your plans to ring in the holiday season.
The Office of Inclusion and Engagement organized and hosted events to mark the occasion in collaboration with the Office of Alumni and Career Services and the Harte Center for Teaching and Learning.
Students in Jon Erickson's Electrical Circuits course are learning through teaching local elementary school students.
 Tickets to the Dec. 5-6 event may be obtained by trading a non-perishable food item to benefit Campus Kitchen at W&L.
Katie Shester is an associate professor of economics and a core faculty member for the Shepherd Program for the Interdisciplinary Study of Poverty and Human Capability, as well as Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies.
Cory Colbert, assistant professor of mathematics at W&L, will present on this year’s International Mathematical Union’s Fields Medal on Wednesday, Nov. 16.
University Singers placed third in the festival’s International Open Competition and received the prestigious Visit Derry Award for their final performance.
Phillips '23 is the university’s 18th Rhodes Scholar.
David Harbor to work on collaborative project to describe and model the erosion process known as “plucking.”
The showcase is at 8 p.m. Thursday, Nov. 10 in the Wilson Concert Hall.
Center announces new personnel, supports research opportunities and introduces programs for the campus community.
The Nuestro Hogar Latino theme house's new location accommodates more students and offers expanded space for programming.
The panel will discuss "What Happened Last Night?” on Nov. 9 at 6 p.m. in Newcomb Hall.
Watch the concert at 8 p.m. Monday, Nov. 7 in the Wilson Concert Hall.
The concert is at 3 p.m. Sunday, Nov. 6 in the Wilson Concert Hall.
The first From Screen to Square event will take place on Monday, Nov. 7.
Students in FYE 100 benefit from collaboration from faculty, staff and students.
The show will be on view from Nov. 7-Dec. 9
Mueller will give a public lecture in Northen Auditorium on Nov. 9 at 5 p.m.
Dinner attendees are invited to sample an indigenous menu during a guided discussion on Nov. 14.
Kevin Finch is nearing completion of his film documentary on celebrated jazz guitarist Wes Montgomery.
Seth Cantey is an associate professor of politics and a core faculty member for the Middle East and South Asian Studies program.
Kim Stanley Robinson, an award-winning author, will give a public lecture on Nov. 10 at 6:15 p.m. in the University Chapel.
Ahmad Ohmid Arman ’23 arrived on campus as a Gunn Scholar in 2021 and is making the most of his long-awaited W&L experience.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company will perform ‘W&L Dancers Create…’ on Nov. 3–5.
The Just Food series continues on Nov. 7 at 6 p.m. with an artist’s talk by Jackie Black.
This year’s events will kick off on Nov. 11. The community is encouraged to volunteer and donate to support Campus Kitchen’s programming.
Benefiel’s talk “Uncovering the mysteries of Pompeii” will be held on Nov. 10.
The recent renovation of the second and third floors of Elrod Commons has provided staff and students with new and improved workspaces.
Ryan Brink serves as Campus Kitchen coordinator.
Tom Marcais, senior technology integration specialist, will present this year's Nobel Prize for Physics on Wednesday, Oct. 26.
Allen will give a public talk on the W&L campus on Oct. 31 at 4 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater.
The faculty recital is scheduled for Oct. 30 at 3 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
Alumni and friends of the Bonner Program are invited to a reception in Mattingly House during Young Alumni Weekend.
George Bent, David Pfaff and Mackenzie Brooks teamed up to profile the 3D reconstruction of historic sites in Florence, Italy.
Henry will give a public talk on the W&L campus on Oct. 20 at 5:30 p.m. in the Keller Theatre.
Zoila Ponce de León recognized by the Journal for Latin American Studies.
Tickets are free, but required for the performance, which will take place at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall. 
The Outing Club debuts two new climbing structures on campus.
Oscar Jerome Stewart, an assistant professor of management at the College of Charleston, will lecture on Nov. 3 at 5 p.m.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Young Alumni Award winners
The University Singers have been selected as a finalist for an International Competition in Ireland.
Professor Ayse Zarakol will give a public lecture on Nov. 14 at 5:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.
The Robert Lee Telford Professor of Psychology retired in 2001.
A new member of the art faculty, Emma Steinkraus recently completed an exhibition at the Hashimoto Contemporary in Los Angeles.
The show will be on display in Wilson Hall’s Lykes Atrium in conjunction with Esteban Ramón Pérez’s solo exhibition “Distorted Myths,” which will be on view in the Staniar Gallery Oct. 10 through Nov. 2. 
Gertz’s talk “Thinking with the Mystics” will be held on Oct. 18.
W&L Library and Institutional History staff joined Mellon-funded initiative On These Grounds with several partner universities to catalog events in enslaved people’s lives.
The show will be on view from Oct. 10–Nov. 2.
Seven students from W&L received Gilman scholarships for academic year 2020-2021.
These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university. 
The College, the Williams School and the Law School have combined to hire 25 visiting faculty members and two postdoctoral fellows for 2022-23.
Bryan credits W&L for teaching him how to approach the complex problems he has tackled throughout his multi-faceted career.
Jon Eastwood serves as department chair for sociology and anthropology.
Tickets are not required, and a reception will follow the performance.
Chiguluri chose W&L because the university challenges her and allows her to explore her interests.
Elliott King profiled the renowned artist for ‘The Journal of Surrealism and the Americas.’
W&L Presents “Viva Momix” on Oct. 4 at 7:30 p.m. on the W&L campus. Tickets are required.
Join members of the W&L choral program for a Parents and Family Weekend choral concert on Sept. 30, at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
Eric Moffa holds several state and national leadership positions in the field of education.
Timothy Lubin and Anthony Edwards both presented at the event held in Berlin earlier this month.
The Comunidad Latina Estudiantil has planned and organized numerous events in collaboration with the Office of Inclusion and Engagement.
Christine Carr to take part in a yearlong effort with the City of Roanoke Stormwater Utility.
Dan Johnson seeks to develop assessment tools to foster creativity in STEM education.
Combined, the College, the Williams School and the Law School have hired 23 Faculty Members.
Caleb Dance serves as associate professor of classics
Booker will give a lecture on Sept. 27 at 5 p.m. in in Leyburn Library’s Northen Auditorium.
Wright chose to attend W&L after witnessing how the school stresses communal and academic relationships between students and faculty with its small class model.
Jackson chose W&L because of the ability to explore different areas of academic interests.
W&L was Elena Lee's '25 first choice.
Washington and Lee students blazed their own trails this summer to pursue their passions.
Zoila Ponce de León will utilize the grant to study immigration and deportation in the U.S. and Brazil. 
Lepage’s talk “Borderlands Arts Pedagogy” will be held on Sept. 28.
Campus Kitchen’s annual event series examines the many ways in which the food system interacts with issues of justice.
Helen Y. Weng, a clinical psychologist, neuroscientist and research associate at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) Osher Center for Integrative Health, will give a lecture on Sept. 22 at 5 p.m.
“The Red Widow” hit bookshelves on Sept. 6 and has received positive reviews.
She will read from her widely anticipated new novel, “Thistlefoot.”
The university’s first-year class represents 26 countries and 43 U.S. states.
Clover Archer’s work will be featured in the Art in Odd Places Story exhibition in New York City later this month.
McKibben will present a public lecture on Sept. 26 at 5:30 p.m.
Jake Reeves serves as an assistant director of inclusion and engagement for LGBTQ+ support.
Despite challenges presented by the Covid-19 pandemic, many students were able to travel this summer for valuable professional experience in other countries.
The first of three fall exhibitions at Washington and Lee University’s Staniar Gallery is now open to the public.
Sandy de Lissovoy is one of 22 fellows to participate in the prestigious residency program from Virginia Center for the Creative Arts.
The Washington and Lee University community will commemorate the tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001, with a memorial ceremony and the placing of 2,977 American flags on Stemmons Plaza.
Jim Lawson ’77 has been hiring W&L grads since 1999.
A passionate conservationist, Niquole Esters ’04 has crafted complex approaches encompassing multiple countries to improve ocean health and benefit local communities.
Student participants stay in Lexington to develop research techniques and obtain valuable work experience.
The title of Murdock’s talk is “Paying attention: Habits of Mind and Psychological Well-being.”
The Museums at W&L invite the public to their opening reception for "Museum Menageries" on Sept. 15 at 6 p.m.
Hanstedt has been elected the at-large representative for private liberal arts colleges in the Virginia Educational Development Collaborative (VEDC). 
The W&L community is invited to the 2022 Convocation on the Front Lawn on Sept. 7 at 5:30 p.m.
The show is scheduled for Jan. 27 Tickets are required.
Emily Cook serves as an assistant professor and research and instruction librarian at W&L
SHECP internships provide work experiences that are impactful for both the students and the communities they serve.
Bonner Kirkland '23 conducted biomedical research this summer in the Children’s National Hospital’s Department of Genetic Medicine.
Aishwarya Vemagiri '25 hopes her summer research experience on diet-induced obesity will lead to a career in the medical field.
“Beneficence: Practicing an Ethics of Care” kicks off Sept. 15 with a keynote address by Professor Karen Stohr.
Kiera Stankewich ’25 tackled food justice in Louisville, Kentucky this summer through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty.
Collin Frazey ’23 spent his summer working for Meta's intellectual property team in the heart of Silicon Valley.
For the first time ever, tickets for the entire season are available online beginning Sept. 13. 
During the pandemic, she launched a helpline to support struggling pet owners.
Washington and Lee University’s Advanced Immersion and Mentoring (AIM) Scholars Summer Program offers a residential and virtual format to meet students’ needs.
Brendan Smith ’24 worked in the British House of Commons as a parliamentary research intern in London.
Since graduation, Schiffman has worked as an account executive at Anomaly on the Crown Royal team in SoHo, New York City.  
Kristina Ayers '25 is interning at a medical clinic for the homeless in Washington, D.C. through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty.
Margaret Witkofsky '24 is researching grants for the city of Lexington, Virginia through her internship with the Office of Community-Based Learning.
Lucy Worthy ’24 is conducting clinical research and shadowing a physician at the Mayo Clinic.
Marcus Payne '25 is spending his summer doing geology research with Professor of Earth and Environmental Geoscience Jeffrey Rahl.
Ponce de Leon's paper "Women Want an Answer! Field Experiments on Elected Officials and Gender Bias" was featured in the Harvard Gendar Action Portal
By his sophomore year at W&L, McPheeters knew he wanted to go into investment banking after graduation. Today, he works as an investment banking analyst in Houlihan Lokey's Industrials group in New York City.
Cleveland is working as a trip leader for an active travel company in Alaska this summer, and she plans to work in Europe this fall. 
As director, Loar is responsible for the management and administration of the program
Kayla Monaghan ’24 is collaborating on a Summer Research Scholars (SRS) project to enhance resources available through Leyburn Library.
Hosted during Parents and Family Weekend, the Sept. 30 event will kick off the 28th Mock Convention.
Elizabeth Grist '22 will spend next year conducting research in Melbourne, Australia as a Fulbright Scholar. Her project assesses the barriers and stigma associated with receiving medication for opioid use disorder. 
This fall, Jin Ni ’22 will pursue her master’s degree in human rights at University College London in the United Kingdom.  
Programa SOL, a three-week program for local bilingual youth, focused on language and literacy development, swimming lessons, active games and visits with community partners.
Diwesh Kumar ’24 is developing investment banking expertise at his summer internship at Boxwood Partners in Richmond, Virginia. 
The donation will support the Campus Kitchen Backpack Program.
Another record-setting year for nationally competitive fellowships at W&L can be attributed to forward-thinking educators, hard-working students and an encouraging fellowships director.
Leah Jackson ’22 always knew she wanted to pursue the health field. Thanks to summer internships and dedication, she heads off to Harvard this fall to follow her passion.  
Lily Mott '23 is interning this summer at News Over Audio in Dublin, Ireland, where she is finding fulfillment at the intersection of politics and journalism.
After a successful summer internship in 2021, W&L's Rett Daugbjerg '22 is now working for JLL's Capital Markets group in Atlanta, Georgia. 
Sarah Burd ’24 is spending her summer working for a medical technology company in Vienna, Austria, that specializes in prosthetic limbs.
Kristen Xu ’22 worked diligently during her time at W&L to accomplish her dream of working with a beauty company after graduation. Currently, she is a global marketing coordinator at NARS Cosmetics in New York.
Eric Bazile '25 is interning with the Austin Greater Chamber of Commerce through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty (SHECP).
Shrestha worked with the Office of Career and Professional Development at W&L to "engineer" the perfect career after graduation. 
Bridget Osas ’25 is researching behavioral impacts on the development of metabolic syndromes like obesity.
Rosen utilized summer internships to help land his current role as an analyst at SVB Securities. 
Burden is taking her talents to New York City to work in strategic planning at advertising agency BBDO.
Caroline Wise '23 is spending her second summer working as an alpine guide in Alaska.
Spanfeller will be applying her studies in sociology and strategic communication to her new role as an editorial assistant for Women's Health magazine.
After his USTA program orientation in September, Tinsley will teach in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
Sharman will put his degrees to use in a position on Capitol Hill.
Professor Aly Colón was interviewed in an article titled “As America watched Jan. 6 hearing, Fox viewers heard Tucker Carlson’s alternate reality.”
Sheridan, a business administration and studio art major, will be joining the wealth management team at UBS in New York City.
Jasiewicz, the William P. Ames Jr. Professor of Sociology at W&L, recently published a book titled “On the Streets and at the Polls."
At W&L, Kirkland discovered that his two passions, sports and engineering, could be combined into one fulfilling pursuit. He's going to intern at a sports equipment company before heading to grad school at Purdue.
Kingwill has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Uzbekistan. He will depart in September 2022 for his 10-month program. 
Assenso, a neuroscience major, is heading to the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York, where she will be a clinical research coordinator.
After her USTA program orientation in September, Joey Dickinson will be teaching in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
Mosher has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Kazakhstan. He will also spend this summer receiving intensive Russian language training in Tbilisi, Georgia.
The STEM-focused endowment will support internships, research opportunities, academic conference costs and other student experiences.
In his remarks, President Will Dudley urged the Class of 2022 to carry forward the lessons they’ve learned and make a positive impact in their future communities.
Bernard has been selected as a 2022 Udall Scholar in the environmental category.
Elizabeth Grist has been awarded a Fulbright research grant to Melbourne, Australia, to study the stigma and barriers associated with receiving medication for opioid use disorder.
A new deal will establish an offsite solar farm from which W&L will purchase energy equivalent to 100% of campus electricity use, allowing the university to lower greenhouse gas emissions, save money and close in on its goal of carbon neutrality.
As we say farewell to the members of Washington and Lee University's Class of 2022, let's take a look back at their first days as Generals.
Three members of the Class of 2022 will spend seven months in the Teaching Assistant Program in France (TAPIF) teaching English to public school.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Students in Elliott King’s Spring Term class, “Modern Art in Barcelona,” are being steeped in Spanish art, history and architecture during an unforgettable educational trip to Barcelona and Madrid.
Johnston was recently awarded a fellowship to the Center for Arabic Study Abroad at the American University in Cairo.
Carley will serve as an English language teaching assistant in a school in the former Soviet republic.
Students in Michael and Lena Hill’s Spring Term course are discovering what inspired writers of past generations.
In this Spring Term course, Washington and Lee students are making data science look like a walk in the park.
Stankewich received a David L. Boren Scholarship from the National Security Education Program to study abroad in Tanzania in fall 2022.
The show will run for three nights: May 17-19. Tickets are required.
Meet Taylor Garcia, a politics major and Law, Justice, and Society minor who plays varsity tennis at W&L.
CSI: W&L students are learning forensic science with the help of a real FBI evidence response team.
"W&L’s small classes and dedicated professors made sure I never missed an opportunity to dive deeper into something that interests me."
A local book launch for the collection, “Poetry’s Possible Worlds,” will be held at the Reeves Museum of Ceramics on the W&L campus on May 17 at 4:45 p.m.
Wilkerson received an All-American Attorney Award from the American Mock Trial Association.
Lane Johansen was inspired by an unforgettable summer in Ukraine.
Allen will speak at W&L on May 9 at 7 p.m. in the University Chapel. The event is open to the W&L community and tickets are required.
The May 11 recital in the Wilson Concert Hall will focus on musical associations from Venice.
Galvez has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to France, where he will teach English to secondary school students and serve as a cultural ambassador for the United States.
David Gálvez's favorite places on campus are the Global Discovery Laboratories and a special study corner in the library.
Fugate will use her graduate research fellowship from the National Science Foundation to study the migration patterns of bison in Yellowstone National Park. 
The two recent acquisitions, a large dish and a small jar, allow the museum to better represent the global reach of Chinese ceramics. 
After her USTA program orientation in September, Shugart will team teach in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
Hughes' public lecture, titled "Ethical Considerations for the Application of Machine Learning at Scale" will be delivered on May 2 at 4 p.m.
Addison has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Uruguay, where she will teach English to primary or secondary school students and serve as a cultural ambassador for the United States.
Washington and Lee’s Staniar Gallery presents “Passage,” a retrospective exhibition of paintings celebrating the career of W&L’s Kathleen Olson. There will be a public reception for the show on May 7 at 5 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
Washington and Lee students can now explore the Headspace app’s mental health and wellness features thanks to the generous support of alumni Greg and Kelly Golub. 
De Maria, a longtime professor and manager of the university’s radio station and television studio, was a beloved mentor to students and a cherished colleague and friend to many in the university community.
The English Teaching Assistantship provides Cones a stipend to teach English to students in Bulgaria and lead cultural exchange activities.
Tripathi will teach English to students in Colombia for 10 months.
Washington and Lee University's Community Grants Committee has made 13 grants totaling almost $35,000 to non-profit organizations in Lexington and Rockbridge County.
The public lecture, titled "Portrait of a Village, Ukraine," will be delivered by Lida and Mišo Suchý on April 28 at 5 p.m.
Lee has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Costa Rica starting in early 2023.
Maggie Hardin '22 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany.
Keeley will live in a German community for one academic year to teach English to students in a local school.
Bri Mondesir ’22 has found her purpose through volunteer work in the Rockbridge area community as a scholar in the Bonner Program at W&L.
The Beinecke Scholarship Program provides funds for post-graduate study to students of unusual promise.
The Leadership Excellence Awards give recognition and thanks to nominated students and organizations for their many efforts that contribute to making W&L the special place that it is.
The Weinstein Scholar annual program invited students to take a culinary trip around the world without leaving the Washington and Lee campus.
W&L’s Alpha Circle of ODK, the national leadership honor society, inducted 50 new members in its private spring induction ceremony on campus April 1.
Each scholar is awarded $7,500 to support undergraduate research in their junior or senior year.
The Phi Beta Kappa chapter at Washington and Lee University welcomed 57 students into the prestigious honor society. 
Rădulescu's plays capture the challenges and triumphs faced by immigrants and refugees.
The weekend’s seminar will feature Rebecca Makkai '99, author of the critically acclaimed novel "The Great Believers."
The Instituto Cervantes invited Professor Mayock to Spain to speak at the inaugural event for the Centenary Celebration of Carmen Laforet in March 2022.
King co-edited a book as a part of Penn State Press' "Refiguring Modernism" series.   
Students from W&L’s Neuroscience Program hosted an event for local elementary students on March 18.
Riter will spend the next academic year volunteering with a community organization, working as an English teaching assistant and taking courses at the University of Graz.
The students’ work is on display in Staniar Gallery through April 9.
W&L will celebrate the international movement on April 2 from noon to 2 p.m. in Watson Gallery on the W&L campus. 
McMaster has been awarded a Fulbright research grant to Italy to complete a hybrid art history and computer science project.
The recital is April 3 at 3 p.m. in Wilson Hall.
W&L's 10th Annual Entrepreneurship Summit will feature a keynote address by Ted Elliott ’94, chief executive officer of Copado. 
Six undergraduate students received Critical Language Scholarships, which will provide them the opportunity to study language intensively during summer 2022.
The band will perform for the last time this academic year on April 7 at 8 p.m. in Wilson Hall on the W&L campus.
After receiving a great deal of support from upperclassmen at Washington and Lee University, Hannah Puckett ’23 pays it forward by dedicating her time to mentoring and counseling first-year students.
Cambridge University Press will publish Marcos Perez's book on Argentina's Unemployed Workers' Movement.
Professor Barton Myers was selected as one of 10 Gilder Lehrman Scholarly Fellows in 2021.
Chancy’s saxophone recital is free and open to the public to view in person or via Livestream on April 1 at 8 p.m.
The show runs from March 31-April 3 in Keller Theatre on the W&L campus.
Thomas will showcase her skills on violin, viola and voice on March 25 at 8 p.m.
Warren’s lecture on March 24, which is free and open to the public, is titled "New World Nuns and the 'Old Religion’: The Afterlives of Medieval Female Spiritualities in the Early Modern Americas."
Hailer will give a public lecture on March 31 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium inside Leyburn Library.
The show is free and open to the public.
 The tour program will feature various works, from choral classics by Sebastian Bach and Josef Rheinberger to ethereal modern music on April 5.
Highlights include presentations from scholars from around the world, staged readings and keynote speaker Martha Kebalo, a UN representative for the World Federation of Ukrainian Women’s Organizations.
The show is free and open to the public.
Larsen will spend the next academic year studying at the Budapest Semesters in Mathematics and participating in a research group at the Alfréd Rényi Institute of Mathematics.
Katie Volk ’18 will give a seminar on her doctoral dissertation research on March 16 at 5 p.m. in the Science Addition Room 214.
Michele Thornton Ghee, the CEO of 1145 Holdings, the holding company of EBONY and Jet, will give a public lecture at W&L on March 21 at 5:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. 
 Katharine Hayhoe will give a virtual lecture at W&L on March 14 at 5:30 p.m.
Faculty , staff and students are invited to attend an information session on the University Master Plan on March 16 at 11:30 a.m. in Northen Auditorium.
Johansen plans to head to Eastern Europe after graduation to serve Ukrainian refugees.
The groups will present a combined dance and music performance on March 10-12 at 7:30 p.m. on the W&L campus.
"The Red Widow: The Scandal That Shook Paris and the Woman Behind It All," is available for preorder now.
Lynn Rainville discusses her research and field work with Black cemeteries.
W&L’s Community Grants Committee will evaluate proposals in March 2022
Between the classroom and her community volunteer work, Katherine Ho '23 has built a W&L experience that is already paying off in the career world.
Moye-Green will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton.
Professor Dan-el Padilla Peralta’s talk is titled "Kehinde Wiley and Black Classicisms."
Members of the Washington and Lee University community are responding to last month’s incursion by offering educational opportunities and raising funds for relief efforts.
W&L will host a public demonstration and lecture on the art of the kimono on March 12 at 2 p.m. in the Northen Auditorium.
O'Neil will give a public lecture on March 14 at 6 p.m. in the Hillel House sanctuary.
The professor of English and associate dean of strategic initiatives champions the liberal arts as the best preparation for postgraduate success.
As  part of a community-based learning class in the Sociology and Anthropology Department, students worked with community partners to create a workshop about positive sexual culture for first-year students.
Six students and three alumni from W&L received Fulbright awards for academic year 2021-2022
This year’s symposium will address "The Civil War and the Ethics of Loyalty.”
The campus will celebrate women’s achievements with various events throughout the month of March.
Beane, Oakland A’s executive vice president of baseball operations and subject of the bestselling novel “Moneyball,” will speak at W&L on March 3.
The public event will feature hot chocolate tasting of historic recipes and feature a display of historic ceramics made for chocolate (beverages?) with Ron Fuchs, W&L's senior curator of ceramics.
The three-night miniseries airs on the History Channel beginning Feb. 20 at 8 p.m.
Taha Khan, assistant professor of computer science at W&L, offers insights and advice about cyber security in the latest episode of "W&L After Class: The Lifelong Learning Podcast."
The clinic is a Lexington-based program run by W&L students that partners with Virginia's Drive to Work initiative to help low-income or previously incarcerated individuals gain or restore their driving privileges.
This year’s Souper Bowl raised $5,627 to support the Campus Kitchen at W&L’s Backpack Program.
Michelle Brock and Holly Pickett are the Harte Center Faculty Teaching Scholar Grant recipients.
Valencia Robin, an artist and author, will give a public lecture on March 7 at 5 p.m. in the Hillel House Sanctuary.
Poet Sarah Matthes will give a public poetry reading on March 21 at 7:30 p.m. in the Hillel House Sanctuary.
The show will be on view from Feb. 14 through March 18, and artist Leah Raintree will give a public talk on Feb. 15.
Pianist Vadym Kholodenko will perform on Feb. 12 at 8 p.m. in the Wilson Concert Hall.
Lauren Curtis, associate professor of classical studies at Bard College, will give a lecture at W&L on Feb. 11 at 4 p.m.
Approximately 70% of students participate in an abroad program during their time at W&L.
The spring event is scheduled for Friday and Saturday, April 29-30 on campus.
Jay Whitacre, director of The Wilton E. Scott Institute for Energy Innovation and trustee professor in energy engineering and public policy at Carnegie Mellon University, will give a lecture on Feb. 10 at 5 p.m.
The program offers staff a 30-day leave, with full pay, to advance some aspect of their career and work at the university.
Professor Michelle Brock will give a talk on witch hunting in modern culture.
The theme for this year's Black FLEX conference is Global Cooperation.
“Thumbelina” will be presented at Keller Theatre in two performances on Feb. 12 at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. Tickets are required.
Nick Mosher '22 always finds support at W&L, whether he's writing a thesis on Russian politics, starting an online human rights newspaper or helping the football team win ODACs.
The book will prove invaluable in helping students gain a better understanding of the theory and practice of environmental and natural resource economics.
 W&L faculty and alumni will share their efforts on creating a more sustainable future.
The all-male dance group will perform their delightful parodies of great ballet classics at the Lenfest Center for the Arts on Feb. 15.
Neeru Paharia, associate professor at Georgetown University’s McDonough School of Business, will give a public lecture on March 9 at 5 p.m. at W&L.
Poets Julie Phillips Brown and Brenna Womer will present a public poetry reading on Feb. 2 at 12:15 p.m. in the Science Center Atrium.
The Museums are celebrating Black History Month with an exhibition of works by artist Sharon Norwood, who questions historical constructed identity and explores the intersection of race and beauty.
Craig Jones has been an active volunteer in his community, particularly the KIPP Metro Atlanta Schools.
The new social justice series titled “Measuring Choice and Freedom" will highlight the work of department alumni.
Assistant Professor Akiko Konishi joined the Music Department in 2021.
Washington and Lee's weeklong celebration of the life and legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. will include an address by Yusef Salaam, a member of the “Exonerated Five.”
The two-day training provided leadership development opportunities designed specifically for W&L’s Greek community leaders.
The Virginia Library Association is the primary statewide professional association for public, academic and special librarians and libraries in Virginia.
All proceeds from the Jan. 30 event will support Campus Kitchen at W&L’s Backpack Program.
Lexington's Downtown Books will host W&L Professor Domnica Radulescu for a book launch on Jan. 27 at 4:30 p.m.
W&L presents the Zukerman Trio on Jan. 23 at 3 p.m. Tickets are required.
The exhibition titled “American Surrealist, paintings by Donald Nield (1924-1984)” will be on display through Feb. 9. Professor Elliot King will give a public lecture about Nield’s work on Jan. 18 at 5:30 p.m.
Amelia Lancaster '22 has used her W&L experience to explore a number of interests, ultimately finding a passion in museum studies and Chinese that has allowed her to co-curate a museum exhibition on campus.
This year's observance of MLK day will comprise a variety of events and lectures.
John Adekola ’24 sees his role with Phonathon as a chance to make a difference at W&L.
AJ Mabaka '22 plans to attend a graduate program in marine science and conservation  policy.
Todd Rutkowski joined the Physics Department in the summer of 2020.
Through her coaching business, Shana Horrigan ’91 works with clients of all ages, in the U.S. and across the globe, who feel they are at a turning point in their lives. 
The large-scale community artwork created as part of a Mudd Center program will be on view in Wilson Hall's Lykes Atrium through Feb. 9. 
Jamie Goodin ’10 was named Member of the Year.
Matthew Loar published a chapter in the "The Oxford Handbook of Heracles."
Professor Rebecca Benefiel discusses the role of graffiti in the ancient Roman town of Pompeii.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Bonnie Davis is a visiting professor of journalism at Washington and Lee University  
The grant provides funds to support W&L student projects across the United States and worldwide.
Lauren Hoaglund '22 has parlayed her passion for medieval and Renaissance history, literature, classics and theater into a busy but rewarding four years at W&L.
The University Chapel and Galleries recently opened an exhibition titled "Setting the Stage: A Glimpse Inside 150 Years of the University Chapel Auditorium."
Hulya Dogan, visiting assistant professor of anthropology, joined W&L this fall. 
The Elmes Pathfinder Prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
In addition to pursuing a double major at Washington and Lee, Jackson Hotchkiss ’24 is a competitive cycler who just placed fourth in his age group in a national cycling championship.
Performances will occur Dec. 2-5 in the Keller Theatre on the W&L campus. Tickets are required. 
’Tis the season for holiday events on campus and in the local community! Check out what’s happening and make plans to ring in the holiday season.
The annual Turkeypalooza event at Washington and Lee University's Campus Kitchen involves hours of volunteer work to help make a happy Thanksgiving for members of the local community. 
On Nov. 30, Taylor will speak on the current VFMA exhibition, "Man Ray: The Paris Years."
Kim Hodge has been named a member of the Virginia Department of Education Environmental Education Advisory Committee.
Performance at the VMEA conference is the highest honor for a university  choir student in Virginia. This is the second time W&L has made VMEA.
W&L's Community Grants Committee made eight grants totaling over $25,000 to non-profit organizations in Lexington and Rockbridge County.
Washington and Lee enjoyed a tremendous fall athletics season that culminated with six programs competing in NCAA Championship events.
Against a national backdrop of mental health concerns, Washington and Lee's University Counseling Center recently rolled out new programs to increase the ways in which students can reach out for help. 
At W&L, student volunteers in the peer counseling program, Washingtonian Society and Active Minds supplement University Counseling Center services by offering a caring ear to fellow students.
The latest episode of W&L's Lifelong Learning podcast takes listeners to Italy with George Bent, who describes his remarkable digital history project.
Jayne Reino is a visiting assistant professor of Spanish at Washington and Lee University.
The Class of 2023 was invited to the first annual Junior Program on Nov. 4, where they engaged in meaningful conversation and networking with campus community members.
Join the University Orchestra on Nov. 18 for a performance titled “What’s Old is New Again.”
Arabic professor Anthony Edwards recently published “An Incomplete Journey Away from the Past: The Life and Ideas of Antonius Ameuney (1821–1881).”
Kerin recently published a paper titled "Cut, Tuck, and Paste: Repurposing Mass-Produced Imagery at Buddhist Shrines in Ladakh, India."
W&L’s Marlbrook Chamber Players will present a public concert on Nov. 14 at 3 p.m.
Seay's business, GOES, involves using specialized greenhouses as a form of carbon capture technology.
The university recently celebrated National First-Generation College Student Day to recognize student achievement and remind the community about support resources for first-generation and low-income students at W&L.
Building on discussions from last year’s series, Africana Studies presents “The Aftermath of Black Protest."
The W&L Repertory Dance Company will perform ‘W&L Dancers Create…’ Nov. 11-13 at 7:30 p.m. each night.
The Latin Student Organization planned and organized the events in collaboration with the Office of Inclusion and Engagement.
Tickets for the 2022 season can be purchased online using a credit card or in-person at the Lenfest Center box office beginning Nov. 30.
Under the Ted DeLaney Postdoctoral Program, Washington and Lee University is welcoming new faculty each year from underrepresented groups. 
This year’s events will kick off on Nov. 8. The community is encouraged to volunteer and donate to support Campus Kitchen’s programming.
Fernando Zapata joins W&L as a DeLaney Postdoctoral Fellow in Philosophy.
 Tickets to the Dec. 6-7 event may be obtained by trading a non-perishable food item to benefit Campus Kitchen at W&L.
The exhibit, with works by Maria Cristina Tavera, will be on display Nov. 8-Dec. 3.
Washington and Lee’s Aly Colón will host a conversation with Krissah Thompson from The Washington Post via Zoom on Nov. 9.
Miranda was recently awarded the H. Hiter Harris III Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching for 2021.
Daniel K. Afosah, assistant professor of chemistry, joined the Washington and Lee University faculty in 2021.
Allie Stankewich '23 spent summer 2021 learning about public health in Uganda and green roofs in New York City.
Bethany Dannelly is the associate director of athletics and assistant professor of physical education at Washington and Lee University.  
Washington and Lee will present a joint concert featuring the University Jazz Ensemble and the Vosbein Magee Big Band on Nov. 11 at 8 p.m.
Holden, an actor and puppeteer who hosts "The Joshua Show," will lead the masterclass on Nov. 8 at W&L.
 The all-female jazz quintet “Sheroes” will present a free concert on Nov. 6 at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
Jessie van Eerden, an award-winning author, will give a public lecture on her latest novel on Nov. 15 at 6 p.m. in Leyburn Library’s Northen Auditorium. 
"The Poet's Echo: A Gothic Romance” is scheduled for Oct. 31 at 3 p.m. Audience members are encouraged to come in costume for the hour-long program.
The article examines the impact of a stronger intellectual property rights (IPR) regime through the adoption of Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) on innovation by Indian firms in the bio-pharmaceutical industry.
The novel “Ursula” is Brazil's first abolitionist novel and the first novel by an Afro-Brazilian woman.
Brock's talk is titled "Speak of the Devil: Teaching Histories of the Supernatural."
Chantal Bilodeau, the founder and artistic director of The Arctic Cycle, will give a lecture on Nov. 11 at 5 p.m. 
Andrew Chignell, a professor at Princeton University, will give a lecture on Oct. 28 at 5 p.m. 
The discussion on Oct. 20, "A Wilde Teapot: Exploring Race, Gender and Sexuality,” is free and open to the public.
Ten years after helping found the LGBTQ Resource Center at W&L, Chris Washnock ’12 has carried its community-building lessons into a career in faith-based advocacy.
The new episode of "W&L After Class: The Lifelong Learning Podcast" features biology professor Nadia Ayoub, who explains her research with black widow spiders.
The performance marks the first public choral concert on campus since March 2020.
The public is invited to attend the event.
Eric Tran, a Vietnamese poet and author, will give a public lecture on Nov. 9 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium on the W&L campus.
W&L presents a staged reading of Will Arbery’s “Heroes of the Fourth Turning” in the Johnson Theatre on the W&L campus on Oct. 21-23 at 7:30 p.m.
This year, 14 W&L students won honors in the Classical Association of the Middle West and South Latin translation exam.
The cohort will present a virtual public lecture by Elizabeth Rule, assistant professor at American University, titled "Native Americans and Blood Quantum."
Visiting Assistant Professor Robert Elder joined Washington and Lee University's Physics and Engineering Department in fall 2020.
 Ponce de León's peer-reviewed journal article focuses on the impact of political parties on healthcare reform in Peru.
The anthology consists of 15 essays in Spanish and English that offer a fresh look at Spanish metafiction, not just in literature but also in television, film, theatre, photography and art.
Lynn Rainville discusses Black cemetery preservation in a recent NBC News article.  
Professor Cody Watson's paper analyzes the use of deep learning in software engineering research.
Cobb, a staff writer for The New Yorker, will give a lecture at W&L on Oct. 7.
Ford joins W&L from Skidmore College, where she is the Quadracci Chair in Social Responsibility, professor of sociology, founder of the Intergroup Relations Program, and director of the Center for Leadership, Teaching, and Learning.
A deer figure on display in a new Watson Galleries exhibit, "Auspicious Animals," is an example of the Chinese practice of blending European tastes with encoded symbolic meaning.
The exhibit reflects on women's right to vote.
Ashley Killam will present a lecture titled “Fanfare for the Unheard: Diversifying Stands and Creating Inclusive Repertoire.”
Davies work looks at the setting of exchange rates in resource-rich developing countries.
Cox is an award-winning historian and a distinguished lecturer for the Organization of American Historians.
Former DEA special agents and subjects of Netflix’s “Narcos,” Javier Peña and Stephen Murphy, will give a public talk at W&L on Sept. 30.
This fall, the Campus Kitchen is introducing a new multi-year event series titled "Just Food: Land Access, Redlining, and Food Sovereignty."
Caleb Miller joined the Washington and Lee University Politics Department as a visiting assistant professor in fall 2021.
As the academic year began, the Class of 2024 participated in multiple in-person events that allowed them to network and learn more about the many resources available to them at W&L.
Assistant Professor of Economics Mario Negrete joined the W&L Economics Department in fall of 2021.
Mengying Liu is an assistant professor of engineering at W&L. 
A year after graduating, Tim Pierce ’20 uses data science to map job skills in Appalachian labor markets.
The picnic is an annual tradition on the W&L campus.
The Museums at W&L invite the public to their grand reopening reception on Sept. 24 at 4:30 p.m.
Professor Eva Lyon published an article in Global Change Biology.
Professor Lesley Wheeler will give a public author talk on Sept. 22 as part of Randolph College’s Pearl S. Buck Writers in Residence experience.
McCorkle will perform at Lexington Presbyterian Church on Sept. 19 at 3 p.m. No tickets are required.
No tickets are required for the Sept. 17 performance in Wilson Concert Hall.
The panel’s reenactment is titled “Reliving the Constitutional Convention."
The Washington and Lee University community remembered the tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001, with a memorial ceremony and placing of 2,977 American flags on Stemmons Plaza.
Assistant Professor Lingshu Hu joined the Business Administration Department in September 2021.
The undergraduate and law classes of 2020 got a chance to return to campus, experience a traditional in-person ceremony, and celebrate their graduation with friends and family at an event that had been postponed for more than a year amid a pandemic.
Washington and Lee's newest class moves in, talks about why they chose W&L, and gets ready to rock this academic year. 
Andi Coulter joined the Business Administration department as a visiting assistant professor in fall 2021.
This year’s series revolves around revitalization of Indigenous lifeways and is titled "Indigenous in Rockbridge and the Interior: First Peoples, Land and Sustainability."
Washington and Lee University marks this milestone anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks with a special collection of stories.
The public recital, “Musical Innovators: Prokofiev and Shostakovich,” is scheduled for Sept. 12 at 3 p.m. in the Wilson Concert Hall.
The W&L community is invited to the 2021 Convocation on the Front Lawn on Sept. 9 at 5:30 p.m.
Terry Vosbein, professor of music at W&L, was inspired by the 9/11 attacks to compose an original song, "A Prayer for Peace."
The study showed that highly attractive job-seekers tend to feel more powerful than other candidates, but one simple exercise can level the playing field.
The Washington and Lee University community this year will remember the tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001, with a memorial ceremony, prayer vigil and placing of 2,977 American flags.
The exhibition is the first comprehensive study of the artist's watercolors.
The W&L campus is buzzing with life again as students arrive for athletic practice, Pre-Orientation trips and other adventures to usher in Fall Term.
Katana Evans '22 used summer enhancement funds to intern with Rep. Julia Brownley's office and Recovery Organization Resources.
Professor Barton Myers recently contributed to “The Oxford Handbook of the American Civil War.”
Professor Davies received the National Dance Education Organization 2021 Outstanding Dance Education Researcher Award.
"Daily Ethics: How Individual Choices and Habits Express Our Values and Shape Our World” kicks off Sept. 27 with a keynote address by Professor of Philosophy Cheshire Calhoun.
The official Commencement ceremony for the undergraduate and law Classes of 2020 will take place on Saturday, Sept. 11, beginning at 10:30 a.m. on campus.
Parents and Family Weekend 2021 is scheduled for Oct. 1-3.
A record-setting year for nationally competitive fellowship awards at Washington and Lee University can be attributed to forward-thinking educators, hard-working students and a persistent, encouraging fellowships director. 
Come along for this photo tour of the Houston H. Harte Center for Teaching and Learning, which is now open for collaboration.
Professor Christa Bowden presents her newest collaborative art show at Augusta University titled “Cumberland Island: Land, Water, Wind, and Light."
She will earn her master’s in digital health before attending medical school.
Chris Tucker '23 spent the summer researching Western Bluebirds in Missoula with a biology professor from the University of Arizona.
W&L's students and visitors will find lots to explore in and around Lexington this year.
Professor Chris Gavaler’s play “The Zombie Life” will open at Firehouse Theatre in Richmond, Virginia on Aug. 18.
Professor Cristina Pinto-Bailey recently published an essay on Black Brazilian feminisms and translated four pieces by Afro-Brazilian writers.
Paige Anderson '22 is spending the summer recording an album of classical violin music in memory of her grandmother.
Victor Ricciardi, visiting professor of finance at Washington and Lee University, was recently interviewed for MoneyGeek.
Professor Linda Hooks discusses personal loans in a recent WalletHub article.
The award covers full tuition and includes a $10,000 stipend toward living expenses.
The First-Year Experience program is designed to familiarize new students with the people and programs that make Washington and Lee such a special place. 
The initiative matches participating W&L students with local host families interested in connecting.
Two presenters who met at a 2017 conference at Washington and Lee joined forces to repatriate a stolen Nepali deity. 
Professor Aly Colón was interviewed in an article titled “Suspended from social media, Donald Trump has found a new, old way to spread falsehoods.”
Professor Barton Myers was recently quoted in an article titled “Private and religious groups are starting to pay reparations for slavery – but it’s nowhere near enough.”
The new episode of "W&L After Class: The Lifelong Learning Podcast" features Tyler Lorig, professor emeritus of cognitive and behavioral science, who has spent his career studying the olfactory system.
In 1971, Black students founded the Student Association for Black Unity, launching a 50-year tradition of advocacy on campus.
W&L’s Office of Lifelong Learning presents an inside view of ongoing research from university faculty July 19-23 titled “Beyond the Classroom: Frontiers of Faculty Research.”
The donation will support the Campus Kitchen Backpack Program.
Professor Mark Rush published an opinion piece in The Hill titled, "Partisan bias in the Constitution? Check the data."
Professor Molly Michelmore published a book review for Mike Konczal’s “Freedom From the Market: America's Fight to Liberate Itself From the Grip of the Invisible Hand.” 
Professor Victor Ricciardi was quoted in an article titled “You’re probably sabotaging yourself when it comes to finances. How to spot it — and stop it.”
Professor Aly Colón published an article describing the best practices for consuming news in The Conversation.
Professor Nadia Ayoub was interviewed in a Wired article about her work with spider silk.
Robinson succeeds Jamie Kipfer, who is departing the role on June 30.
Leah Lanier recently published a journal article titled “Activation of Prp28 ATPase by phosphorylated Npl3 at a critical step of spliceosome remodeling.”
The Rockbridge Community Health Foundation has awarded a $25,000 grant to the W&L student organization to pilot a summer program in 2022.
Huber is one of 20 members of the cabinet's sixth cohort, representing diverse Jewish backgrounds and experiences globally.
Tanajia Moye-Green '23 is a small-town girl with big plans to make a difference in the world.
In a shifting media landscape, Ted Williams ’07 and Mike Allen ’86 are focused on reigniting local journalism through a new business venture.
Politics Professor Lucas Morel was interviewed for the “We the People” podcast.
W&L’s new provost, Lena Hill, aims to support the university’s initiatives in interdisciplinary work, diversity, equity and inclusion, and more.
Lynn Rainville was recently featured in the Burlington County Times.
Mark Rush’s recent article titled “Is Virginia Now a Beacon of Electoral Reform? Yes, but…” appeared in the Spring 2021 publication.
Foxen’s USTA position with Fulbright Austria starts in October 2021.
Campbell has won a Gilman Scholarship to do an internship in Barcelona, Spain.
Stern will travel to South Korea this summer to study in Seoul, South Korea.
The dedicated students on the crew are making W&L a more sustainable place.
Class of 2021 students in religion are heading out to do big things following W&L.
Watt has received a Fulbright grant to support his research on the importance of small-scale fishing for livelihoods, culture and well-being in Vanuatu, an island nation in the South Pacific. 
Zoila Ponce de León was featured in the Pontifical Catholic University of Peru Research Center's series "Public Policies and Debates."
Shikha Silwal recently published "The Economics of Conflict and Peace."
Organizations across the Lexington and Rockbridge County areas have planned a Juneteenth event that will include an art show, live music, a free raffle and more. 
Graduating seniors at Washington and Lee University on Thursday were offered some historical perspective and lauded for their perseverance and resilience.
Johnston has won a Gilman Scholarship to study abroad with Middlebury Abroad at Mohammed V University in Rabat, Morocco.
Everything has fallen into place at W&L for Alankrit Shatadal '21, who complemented her academic experience with research, peer counseling and membership in University Singers. 
Hatfield will travel to Denmark for the fall semester and take multiple psychology classes.
Hughes’ award is part of ODK’s 2021 General Russell E. Dougherty National Leader of the Year competition.
Kenny Melvin has been accepted as an Inclusive Fundraising Fellowship mentor.
As we bid farewell (for now) to the Class of 2021, we look back at their very first days on the W&L campus.
The May 25 event is free and open to the public to view online.
Young alumnus Alden Schade shares why he gives back to W&L.
Professor Victor Ricciardi discussed a new category in the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standard
The Community-Based Learning Fellows Program intends to deepen the high-impact practice and pedagogy of community-based learning at W&L.
The series will end the academic year with a roundtable discussion on May 19 at 6 p.m. titled "The Black Freedom Struggle: Verdicts on Advocacy."
Community-based learning is an educational approach that integrates learning and mentorship with community engagement.
Professor Melina Bell’s article is titled "John Stuart Mill's Harm Principle and Free Speech: Expanding the Notion of Harm."
Leonard Satterwhite recently won the John A. "Jack" Blackburn Award for Ethics in College Admission.
The May 17 event will highlight the exhibit, which is curated by sevens students at W&L as part of a Spring Term course, Seminar in Museum Studies.
W&L seniors Will Gentry and Gray Carlton started Lexington Harvest Haul to deliver local food to consumers. They’re now looking to sell the successful business before they leave Lexington after graduation.
In a new episode of "After Class," W&L’s Lifelong Learning podcast, Elizabeth Knapp, geology professor and director of the Johnson Program in Leadership and Integrity, discusses her love of geology and the impact of the Johnson Program.
Morris is the great-great-great-grandson of Frederick Douglass and the great-great-grandson of Booker T. Washington.
A series of hour-long interviews with the late Ted DeLaney ’85, professor history of emeritus, is now available online.
The performances will take place live and online on May 20 and 21 at 2:30 p.m.
The Miranda Collection for Native American Library Acquisitions will feature books by Native American and Indigenous authors and literature on relevant topics.
The students were selected from an original applicant pool of 6,621, which represents a 32 percent increase in applications over last year.
The program offers participants the opportunity to work in France for seven months, teaching English to French students of all ages.
The Career Enhancement Fellowship seeks to increase underrepresented junior and other faculty members by creating career development opportunities.
Lebsack will perform a virtual organ concert via livestream on May 18 at 7 p.m.
As part of a community-based learning course in collaboration with Rockbridge Regional Tourism and the Rockbridge Historical Society, Washington and Lee University students researched and mapped Black-owned businesses that thrived in Lexington during the Jim Crow era.
Bui’s USTA position with Fulbright Austria starts in September 2021.
The W&L community is invited to an in-person concert on May 4.
Leah Naomi Green was recognized for her new poem, "Origin Story."
The duet consists of Julia Goudimova and Anna Billias, who both serve as lecturers in the Washington and Lee Music Department.
Professor Seth Michelson completed a weeklong virtual residency and gave the keynote address on social justice at Southern Connecticut State University.
John Juneau ’18 and Amanda Wahlers ’18 have received pre-doctoral graduate research fellowships from the National Science Foundation. The five-year fellowships include three years of financial support and a cost of education allowance.
Hostile Terrain 94, a global pop-up exhibit that takes a powerful look at the human cost of undocumented migration at the U.S. southern border, opened at W&L this week after years of planning and collaboration.
The University Singers will compete virtually on May 1.
Estrada Hamm recently received a David L. Boren Scholarship from the National Security Education Program to study abroad in Jordan.
It's the most wonderful term of the year, so keep an eye on @wlunews social media and this post for a daily dose of W&L's deeply engaging four-week term.
Professor Andrea Lepage recently published two essays based on exhibits in W&L's Staniar Gallery.
Grace Anne Holladay '21 has a conversation with Dr. Kelli Jarrell ’12, who was recently named the national emergency fellow of the year
Nandini Pandey’s lecture is titled "Diversity, Desire, and the Exotic in Ancient Rome (with some thoughts on Atlanta)."
The “Virginia Tech Coffee with the Chair” series features experts sharing their experiences and successes in economics.
Professor Martin Davies recently consulted on exchange rate policy for the Papua New Guinea Treasury and published his work in a discussion paper.
Gordon Ball will read from his recent book, "My San Francisco," on May 13.
De León will give a virtual lecture on May 4 at 5 p.m. as part of W&L's Mudd Center for Ethics series.
James Ricks ’21 has received a Fulbright creative grant to Nepal to photograph patients and healthcare providers at a one-of-a-kind health clinic.
Miranda, who retires from W&L this year, will present a public reading titled “How to Love the Burning World” on April 26.
In 2020, Julie Youngman introduced significant programmatic and curricular development in W&L’s new interdisciplinary program on Law, Justice and Society.
Life has been a series of firsts for Rita Davis ’93, who now serves as counsel to Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam.
Tanner Hall ‘21 was recently awarded a fellowship to the Center for Arabic Study Abroad program at the American University in Cairo.
The photography exhibit will be on display April 26 through May 28, with a virtual artist talk on May 11 at 5:30 p.m.
The award will support a nine-month research project in India investigating intervention service access for individuals with disabilities.
Lorena Terroba Urruchua '21 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship (ETA) to Spain.
Reimbursable experiences include the Virginia Safari Park, Natural Bridge, Hull's Drive-in, and coffee and a pastry at Season's Yield Farm.
The Office of Career and Professional Development (CPD) supports and empowers W&L students and alumni to discover, navigate and achieve their career and professional goals.
Washington and Lee University’s Community Grants Committee has made 12 grants totaling $37,000 to nonprofit organizations in Lexington and Rockbridge County.
Filler, an assistant professor in the Religion Department, joined the W&L faculty in fall 2020.
On May 15, Robert Masi ’21 will perform solo piano masterworks by Chopin, Beethoven, J.S. Bach, Ravel and Bloch.
On May 23, Chad Thomas’21 will present a graduation piano recital featuring George Gershwin’s monumental work, “Rhapsody in Blue,” and other pieces.
On May 1, Petzold will perform an expansive variety of clarinet works.
“A Social Theory of Congress: Legislative Norms in the Twenty-First Century” is the newest book on the topic of the U.S. Congress in more than 15 years.
The April 29 conversation with Raisman, U.S. Olympic gymnast and bestselling author, is open to the W&L community.
In September 2021, Bull will leave for a 10-month stay in Ecuador to develop a co-creative anthology of stories covering resistance and resilience networks in the Ecuadorian Amazon.
Tim Diette discussed his new journal article, “Does the Negro Need Separate Schools? A Retrospective Analysis of the Racial Composition of Schools and Black Adult Academic and Economic Success,” in Scienmag and The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
Ramonah Gibson '20 has received a Fulbright United Kingdom (U.K.) Partnership Award to complete her master's degree in creative writing scriptwriting at the University of East Anglia.
Her project, “Age and Growth of Fan Mussel (Pinna nobilis) in Mar Menor,” will take her to Calpe, in Spain this fall.
"Intimate Violence," a documentary about domestic violence by W&L professor Stephanie Sandberg and junior Nolan Zunk, has been recognized by three film festivals.
Clay Chadwick ’22, Demmanuel Gonzalez ’21, Caleb Peña ’21, Carolina Rubio Regalado ’22 and Pamela Steimel ’22 were recognized in March by the Virginia Teachers of Promise Institute.
Professor Nneka Dennie discusses Women’s History Month in a recent New York Times article.
Helping with sheep at Tom Stanley's farm is providing Isaiah Medina '22 and Abby Hamilton '22 with valuable experience that they can include on future veterinary school applications. 
Brian Laubscher, director of athletic communications at W&L, was recently recognized by the College Sports Information Directors of America with a 25-year service award.
The article is titled “Lava Jato deepened political chaos in Peru and splashes the 18 presidential candidates.”
In a WalletHub piece, Scott Hoover, Washington and Lee University’s A. Stevens Miles Professor of Banking and Finance, answers questions about secured credit cards.
Kathryn Muensterman ’22 has won a $34,000 Beinecke Scholarship to help fund her graduate studies.
Brian Alexander will also moderate a panel discussion, "Congressional Norms in an Era of Conflict," via Zoom on April 8, at 12 p.m.
Bob Strong will also participate in a panel discussion about the film and the Carter presidency on April 13 at 7 p.m.
Washington and Lee University’s Office of Inclusion and Engagement recently released a video featuring members of W&L’s Asian and Pacific Islander community, calling on the world to notice, and end, incidents of hate.
On April 9 and 10, W&L will stream its production of "BURN" featuring a large ensemble of talented student actors and directed by Jemma Levy, assistant professor of theater.
Rafay Hassan '22 was looking for a liberal arts university that would give him individualized attention and put his critical thinking skills to the test. He found that and more at W&L. 
James Ricks ’21 plans to work this summer with the Oda Foundation in Nepal.
Julienne de Vastey '23 and Jamal Magoti '23 have won a Davis Projects for Peace grant for their project "Tokomeza Kata Kimeo."
The exhibit of paintings by Evelyn Dawson, which includes student reflections and a student-curated playlist, is part of Museums at W&L's new Mindfulness Initiative and the 20th anniversary of the Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Program. 
On April 3 at 8 p.m., Fuller will showcase her insight and creativity in a series of original compositions performed by W&L student performers.
Song will perform selections by composers J. S. Bach, Antonín Leopold Dvořák, Dmitri Shostakovich and James Stephenson for her senior cello recital on April 2 at 8 p.m.
Politics professor Lucas Morel recently published an article in Persuasion titled “Speaking the Truth.”
Lynn Uzzell, who teaches in the Politics Department, recently published an article in RealClearPublicAffairs titled "Madison's Five Lessons for Overcoming Polarization."
Cody Watson, an assistant professor of computer science, has published a paper in the International Conference on Software Engineering.
Each scholar is awarded $7,500 to support undergraduate research in their junior or senior year.
Twelve students at W&L are creating their own version of the U.S. Constitution in Professor Lynn Uzzell’s politics course.
The W&L community is invited to an in-person concert on April 8.
Taha Khan joined W&L's Computer Science Department this year as an assistant professor.
The cast and crew of W&L’s upcoming Bentley Musical, “Little Women,” tackled a host of pandemic-related challenges to produce a film version of the show that will be screened for audiences March 30-April 2. 
The students’ work will be on display in Staniar Gallery starting March 29.
Under Ellen Mayock's direction, student members of W&L's English for Speakers of Other Languages group will present at the virtual conference on March 25.
The April 8 talk is titled "Art as Transformation: Using Photography for Social Change."
Jeremy Weissman will talk about his recent book, “The Crowdsourced Panopticon: Conformity and Control on Social Media,” on March 31.
Two new first-year cohorts, #Hungerfighters and Good Nabors, educate first-year students about the Shepherd Program, introduce them to service learning, help them make friends and set them up for further involvement in the program.
Nadeen Kharputly recently published an article titled "Whose Best Friend? Muslims, Dogs, and the Making of American Humanity."
On March 26, Gonzalez will perform selections by composers Domenico Scarlatti, Gabriel Fauré, Manuel de Falla and others.
The community is invited to a virtual talk on April 7 titled "Women in the Arts: Out of the Margins, Into the Light."
Highlights include live performances of works written from artists and scholars nationwide.
Katrina Forrester will give a virtual lecture on March 25 at 5 p.m. as part of W&L’s Mudd Center for Ethics series.
The W&L community is invited to an in-person outdoor concert on April 5.
Lucas Flood '21 fell for W&L when he saw it for the first time on a family road trip, and he's found it an ideal place to study history and German. 
The March 22 conversation with Rowe, host of the hit television series “Dirty Jobs,” is open to the W&L community.
Students and faculty in the W&L Music Department refused to let COVID-19 silence them, instead embracing creative protocols to continue making music together in person.
Professor Nneka Dennie contributed to a chapter in a new anthology titled "The Routledge Companion to Black Women's Cultural Histories."
The March 21 show is free and open to the public to view online.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company performance will stream for free online on March 25 and 26 at 7 p.m., March 27 at 6 p.m. and March 28 at 2 p.m.
Miranda's new poem, "Torch," was selected as the American Academy of Poets' "Poem-a-Day."
The university will host an online poetry reading by eight students in Heid Erdrich’s Master Class in Poetry course on March 15 at 6 p.m.
Felix Kwame Yeboah will give a virtual lecture on March 15 at 5 p.m. as part of W&L’s Mudd Center for Ethics series.
With an optimistic attitude, W&L’s Intramurals have faced the challenges of the pandemic with ingenuity and persistence. 
Six undergraduate students received Critical Language Scholarships, which will provide them the opportunity to study language intensively during summer 2021.
Nneka Dennie, a new member of the History Department faculty, has already participated in a number of thought-provoking panel discussions at W&L.
In the latest episode of the Lifelong Learning podcast, Mish talks about his passion for theater, how musicals can be reinvented to account for changing times, and his experiences connecting students and alumni. 
In a recent in-class project, seven W&L students used materials found around campus to discuss a broader historical narrative and create a piece now on display in Staniar Gallery.
The university’s performance will be streamed online beginning March 30.
Norman Kim-Senior ’05 has created a COVID Memorial Walk and Run to foster community, support local nonprofits and mark the one-year anniversary of the pandemic.
The public discussion, which explored female abolitionists’ roles in history, featured Lena Hill, dean of the college; Ron Fuchs, senior curator of ceramics; and Nneka Dennie, assistant professor of history.
Melissa Yorio '21 has received support from many corners during her college career, so when the pandemic broke out, she found a way to give back within her hometown community. 
Poppenberg has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Argentina starting in March 2022.
Kristina M. Roney, visiting assistant professor of French at W&L, was recently named the incoming finance officer for the SFHS, a three-year term that places her on the society’s Executive Committee.
At these events, Student Affairs deans set up tables outside Elrod Commons for 90-minute afternoon sessions. Students are invited to stop, chat, take a treat and snag some W&L apparel.
The deadline for submitting a proposal for the Spring 2021 evaluation is 4:30 p.m. on Friday, March 19, 2021.
Professor Matthews received an outstanding paper award at the 13th International Conference on Game and Entertainment Technologies.
Bioh's hit comedy "School Girls; Or, The African Mean Girls Play" will be screened online March 16, and a virtual talk by Bioh will occur March 18.
Ricciardi served as an expert panelist on behavioral finance and retirement planning for the podcast "That Annuity Show" earlier this year.
The two-day virtual conference will begin March 6 and feature students located across the country.
On March 13, W&L’s Contact Committee and Science, Society, and the Arts will present an evening with New York Times bestselling author, entrepreneur and video creator Hank Green.
In “My San Francisco,” Gordon Ball, visiting associate professor of English, recounts experiences of his time spent in the city.
Professor Thakur-Wernz published a paper in the International Journal of Emerging Markets.
One of Washington and Lee's new faculty members for 2020-21 is mathematics professor Sybil Prince Nelson, a 2001 graduate of W&L.
Linda M. Hooks was featured in a recent Wallet Hub article titled "2021's Best & Worst Cities at Money Management."
Mudd Postdoctoral Ethics Fellow Jeremy Weissman recently published a textbook titled "The Crowdsourced Panopticon: Conformity and Control on Social Media."
Taylor Walle, assistant professor of English, recently published an article titled "Boswell's Dictionary and the Status of Scots Dialect in the Eighteenth Century."
On March 9, Heumann will share her experiences advocating for disability rights and discuss the movement's future.
On March 5, nine W&L music students will present a recital of songs and arias in Spanish.
W&L has allowed Christopher Watt '21 to meet other members of the community and find a future career where three of his passions converge.
On Feb. 26, W&L’s museums and art galleries reopened to current W&L students, faculty and staff for in-person visitation.
On March 7, Lebsack will perform selections by George Frideric Handel, Franz Schubert, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Francis Poulenc and others.
The Feb. 24 online lecture, titled “Black Entrepreneurs: Where Does Money Fit into Protest?,” will examine capitalism as a part of the Black freedom-fighting arsenal.
   Five students from W&L received Fulbright awards for academic year 2020-2021.
The Feb. 23 event is part of a series covering key career development topics such as professional documents, developing your story, networking, interviewing and succeeding on the job.
Professor Strong’s op-ed is titled “Donald Trump and the Stress Test of American Democracy.”
Green will receive the Lucille Clifton Legacy Award from St. Mary’s College of Maryland on March 1. 
Assistant Professor Lloyd Tanlu’s article is titled “Causal Language and Effective Performance Evaluations.”
Cory Colbert was a recent "Honoree of the Day" on a website that honors Black scholars in the mathematical sciences.
Debris from the aftermath of the Hiroshima bombing found its way to W&L’s Special Collections, where it heightened one class’s understanding of a powerful Japanese novel.  
The all-day event was facilitated by upper-division student volunteers.
The conversation on Feb. 23 at 6:30 p.m. will center on the intersection of LGBTQ+ identity and religious affiliations and practices. 
The Office of Inclusion and Engagement (OIE) supports Washington and Lee University's mission by striving to foster a culture in which all community members feel entirely welcome and able to participate in everything the university has to offer.
"W&L After Class: The Lifelong Learning Podcast" invites listeners to join conversations with W&L's expert faculty, giving them a walk down the Colonnade from the comfort of their home.
The Feb. 24 talk, which is free and open to the public to view online, is titled “A Conversation with David Fahrenthold of the Washington Post: Unraveling the Troubled, Secretive Trump Empire.”
Opening Feb. 23, the exhibit will display the Vermont-based artist’s sculptural works. An artist’s talk is scheduled for Feb. 24.
Valerie Hudson, George H.W. Bush Chair and professor of international affairs at Texas A&M University, will deliver a virtual lecture on Feb. 15 at 5 p.m. as part of W&L’s Mudd Center for Ethics series.
Brindle received a Jeffress Trust Awards Program in Interdisciplinary Research grant for his project, “"Modeling Energy Regulation Under Stress: A Possible Mechanism Linking Stress and Disease?"
Despite COVID-19, Jared Nickodem '20 was able to make it to Austria, where he is teaching English to students as part of the U.S. Teaching Assistant Program.
The Sociology and Anthropology Department is collaborating with the Environmental Studies Program to present a new social justice series titled “White Supremacy and Society.”
Earlier this month, economics professor Peter Grajzl gave an online presentation for the University of Oxford titled "A machine-learning history of English case law and legal ideas before the Industrial Revolution."
W&L presents a monthlong schedule of events celebrating Black History Month.
The WGSS Program at W&L is celebrating the milestone with a series of events that include a film screening, art exhibits and panel discussions. 
The Feb. 11 conversation with Bloom is open to the W&L community.
Strong co-authored an article in The Conversation titled “America’s newest voters look back at the 2020 election – and forward to politics in 2021.”
When her Critical Language Scholarship to China went virtual because of COVID, Kisker '21 got a six-week sampler of the country and its language through her computer screen.
The Student Association for Black Unity will hold the online event, which is free and open to the public to watch online.
Elliot Reza Emadian ’17 will teach a virtual master class in screendance, a form that merges cinematography and choreography.
Assistant Professor Erin Taylor and Dr. Ralph Caldroney’s public discussion, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Ethical Issues in the Context of Covid-19."
Seidule will discuss his new book, "Robert E. Lee and Me: A Southerner's Reckoning with the Myth of the Lost Cause.”
Poet Heid Erdrich will give a public poetry reading on Feb. 8 at 6 p.m.
The screening will be free and open to the public to view online. A discussion with the film’s creators will follow the screening.
The virtual talk, which is free and open to the public online, is titled "Naming Injustice: Charlene Teters (Spokane) and John Little (Standing Rock Sioux) on American Indian Mascots."
Professors Leigh Ann Beavers and Chris Gavaler recently published a textbook titled “Creating Comics: A Writer’s and Artist's Guide and Anthology.”
The series will present two events, "Looking at Blackness" and "Legislative Leverage: Democratic Processes as Activism,” in late January.
At the start of the academic year, 17 first-year international students began their W&L experience in Scotland. Today, they are taking courses in Lexington as a unique group of friends.
In the article, Brodie discusses Confederate monuments' complex history and how an American contemporary artist is working to change how others view them.
The university’s new religion minor requires completion of six courses and complements any major.
The fun kicks off early this semester with Outing Club activities starting Jan. 22, and the entire campus is invited to participate.
Bo Garfinkel '21 talks about the experiences she's been afforded recently as a recipient of a Public Policy and International Affairs fellowship and a Gilman Scholarship.
The Jan. 26 event, which is free and open to the public to view online, will celebrate 20 Years of WGSS at W&L.
In honor of the Jewish "New Year of the Trees," W&L Hillel, the Native American Cohort and other campus community members will share poems about beloved lands on Jan. 27.
In the article, Rainville discusses how Sweet Briar College remembers the enslaved people and free laborers who built – and are buried beneath – its campus.
Hannah Freibert '21 interviews Mike White '10, program associate for the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, a nonprofit that works to improve health care in America.
This year's observance of MLK day will comprise a variety of virtual events and lectures.
New members will be inducted into the national leadership honor society at W&L’s Founders Day/ODK convention, which will take place in a virtual format on Jan. 19 at 5 p.m.
Proceeds from the sale of soup at participating Lexington restaurants will support Campus Kitchen at W&L's Backpack Program.
Michael Barsanti will be the featured speaker at W&L’s virtual Founders Day/Omicron Delta Kappa Convocation on Jan. 19 at 5 p.m.
The pandemic has presented challenges to working and learning within the community, but virtual and distanced projects have allowed those partnerships to continue to bear fruit this year. 
Beavers’ exhibit will appear in Washington and Lee's Staniar Gallery from Jan. 17 through Feb. 18, with a virtual artist talk on Jan. 27 at 5:30 p.m. 
During his career at W&L, DeLaney brought his passion for justice and inclusion to the classroom and to his scholarship.
Policies adopted to combat COVID-19 led to novel changes in W&L's energy use in 2020.
At W&L, Lorena Terroba Urruchua ’21 found her purpose — helping people with disabilities — at the intersection of psychology, Romance languages and poverty studies. 
The award honors professionals whose passion and devotion to the Jewish campus community enrich the lives of Hillel students.
Dr. Jonathan Wortham '04 is the outbreak investigations team leader in the Division of Tuberculosis Elimination at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Zach Baldridge ’22, Bri Mondesir ’22 and Blake Sanchez ’23 received the prestigious award.
Oyumaa Daichinkhuu ’16 will complete a one-year master’s program at China’s Tsinghua University inspired by the Rhodes Scholarship program at the University of Oxford in England.
Associate Professor of Biology Nadia Ayoub collaborated with students and alumni to publish a research article in the open-access journal PLOS ONE titled “The common house spider, Parasteatoda tepidariorum, maintains silk gene expression on sub-optimal diet.”
Sundie teaches marketing courses at W&L, including Marketing Management. 
The professor of philosophy emeritus taught at W&L from 1968 to 1996.
The Robert Lee Telford Professor of Physics and Engineering Emeritus died Nov. 24.
His one-year term as the organization's president will start November 2021.
In the interview, Hill discusses her new appointment as W&L provost, effective July 1, 2021.
Brian Alexander recently contributed to the Monticello blog, where he discussed Thomas Jefferson’s “Manual of Parliamentary Practice” and the impact it has on modern rules of the U.S. Congress.
The Shenandoah magazine team will host a virtual launch party on Dec. 3 at 7 p.m. to celebrate the newest edition of the magazine, which will be available to the public on Dec. 11.
Membership in HathiTrust allows the W&L community to access millions of digital books that the university does not have in print in the Leyburn, Telford or Law libraries.
Theater students at W&L were challenged to select a piece from the university's art collection and give it voice. 
The winner of the 16th International Choral Competition – Gallus-Maribor automatically qualifies for the European Grand Prix of Choral Singing Competition in 2022.
   Politics professor Mark Rush published opinion pieces in the Jurist and The Virginian-Pilot in November.
Students in Professor Dayo Abah’s Principles of Public Relations class worked with a Lexington nonprofit  to make a life skills book for clients who are trying to get back on their feet.
W&L's Community Grants Committee evaluated eight proposals in October and made six grants totaling $23,000 to non-profit organizations in Lexington and Rockbridge County.
Barton Myers’ op-ed is titled “Why the Stonewall Jackson statue belongs at Chancellorsville.”
A publication from the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education, the Sustainable Campus Index recognizes top-performing sustainable colleges and universities.
Jerónimo Reyes '21 says he is so immensely grateful for the gifts in his life, including a QuestBridge scholarship to W&L, that he wants to become a doctor and devote his career to helping others. 
Journalism Professor Toni Locy appears in multiple episodes of the new docuseries "Trial 4."
The concert is free and open to the public to view online.
The show is free and open to the public to view online.
Washington and Lee University is among the 51 inaugural member institutions* of the Liberal Arts Colleges Racial Equity Leadership Alliance, a new initiative from the University of Southern California's Race and Equity Center.
Mark Rush was interviewed on Brian Frydenborg's '04 “Real Context News” podcast.
Lena Hill, dean of the College and professor of English and Africana studies at Washington and Lee, has been appointed to be the university’s next provost, beginning July 1, 2021.
The Elmes Pathfinder Prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
The show is free and open to the public.
Washington and Lee's brand new, 165,489-square-foot center for athletics and recreation offers larger and more state-of-the-art facilities for athletics and intramural teams, coaching staff, fitness and recreation.
W&L Professor of Economics Hugo Blunch published an article with the IZA Institute of Labor Economics.
Lynn Rainville will participate in the virtual symposium "Revealing Fayetteville – A New Landscape" on Nov. 2 from noon to 3:30 p.m. 
Natalie McCaffery ’24, of Santa Barbara, California, was recently invited to participate in the Forbes Under 30 AgTech+ Hackathon.
Turkeypalooza and several accompanying events will take place on campus Nov. 6–13.
The award-winning W&L Repertory Dance Company will perform W&L Dancers Create … 2020 virtually on Nov. 5 and 6 at 7:30 p.m. and Nov. 7 at 2 p.m.
W&L will present “What Happened Last Night?” virtually on Nov. 4 at 6 p.m.
The virtual performance will be available to watch via livestream on Nov. 7 at 8 p.m. 
Erin Hughes '21 wants to use lessons learned in the classroom and on the basketball court to fight for systemic change in the world.
Guitarist Bhattacharya, who brings universal appeal to his pioneering fusion of classical Indian ragas and bluesy Western music, will perform on Nov. 14 at 7:30 p.m.
Elizabeth Kolbert, a staff writer for The New Yorker, will give a virtual lecture on Oct. 29 at 5 p.m. 
There will be 22 different mixers occurring throughout the day on Oct. 24.
The event on Oct. 28 will celebrate the 100th anniversary of commercial radio in the United States.
The theme for this year's Black FLEX conference is "The Black Playbook."
Ponce de León is an assistant professor of politics at Washington and Lee University.
Domnica Radulescu, the Edwin A. Morris Professor of Comparative Literature at W&L, presents her newest co-edited book, “Voices on the Move: An Anthology by and about Refugees.”
The show is free and open to the public to view online.
This year, 222 people tuned in to watch and participate in the annual summit. 
In October, Washington and Lee University will present Tony Award winner and five-time Tony Award nominee Laura Benanti in two streamed events.
Karla Klein Murdock, professor of cognitive and behavioral science at Washington and Lee University, has been named the next Roger Mudd Professor of Ethics and director of the university’s Roger Mudd Center for Ethics.
The recent graduates’ work will be on display in Lykes Atrium.
W&L’s Contact Committee presents two separate evenings with former presidential candidates Jeb Bush and Andrew Yang as part of a virtual speaker series leading up to the presidential election.
Lesley Wheeler, Henry S. Fox Professor of English at Washington and Lee University and poetry editor for Shenandoah magazine, will give a “spooky-themed” author talk on Oct. 27 at 7 p.m.
Victor Ricciardi, visiting professor of finance at Washington and Lee University, recently appeared on “The Rational Reminder Podcast.”
Rush published op-eds in the Richmond Times-Dispatch and The Fulcrum in September.
Zhang teaches Statistics for Economics and Introduction to Economics, and she is interested in developing courses on the economics of climate change, migration and gender.
"American Folk" is a series of photographic portraits by West Virginia-based artist Lisa Elmaleh. She will give a virtual artist's talk on Nov. 4 at 5:30 p.m.
Anna Bosking, a first-year student at W&L, appeared on a BBC interview panel to discuss her perspective as a voter after last week's vice presidential debate.
Matt Bartini ’12 offers favorite scenes of W&L on his custom shirts.
The virtual Q&A is open to the W&L community.
Enuma Anekwe-Desince '22 has found her niche at Washington and Lee University through her involvement in the Advanced Immersion and Mentoring Program, leadership roles in student organizations, and work as a research assistant in the sociology and psychology departments.
At the virtual event, participants will explore how activism takes many forms, why specific actions are labeled as sedentary, and whether these forms of activism help, harm or do not affect the message.
Slaughter's lecture, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Renewing the Promise of America: Looking Back to Move Forward."
Rice's lecture, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Cultural Norms and the Export of the W&L Honor System."
The performance will run Oct. 15-18, and it is free and open to the public to watch via livestream.
The COVID-19 pandemic has failed to hinder Washington and Lee University professors, who have adapted creatively to teach both in person and virtually this term.
Dr. Guelzo will deliver this year’s lecture, “The Mystery of Robert E. Lee,” virtually.
   According to a study by W&L’s Lisa Greer, Coral Gardens Reef in Belize remains a refuge for Acropora spp. coral despite widespread devastation in other areas of the western North Atlantic Ocean/Caribbean Sea.
As part of the yearlong celebration of Native American Heritage, W&L will host a free virtual lecture with Katrina Phillips, an assistant professor of American Indian history at Macalester College and an enrolled member of the Red Cliff Band of Lake Superior Ojibwe. 
The deadline for submitting a proposal for the fall 2020 evaluation is 4:30 p.m. on Friday, Oct. 16, 2020.
At W&L, Mary North Jones has been able to pursue interests in both European history and medicine as she builds a foundation for her career.
Professor Molly Michelmore took part in a forum and podcast examining the “winners and losers of the Republicans’ 2017 redistribution of wealth.”
The lecture, which is free and open to the public to view via Zoom, is titled “Climate Change and Pacific Islander Eco-Poetics.”
The Entrepreneurship Summit will take place online on Friday and Saturday, Oct. 2–3.
The Washington and Lee University library is working to preserve documents relating to COVID-19 and diversity and inclusion discussions.
Six accomplished artists will give virtual master classes for the Washington and Lee community this academic year, covering a wide range of dance styles, from hip-hop to K-pop.
Washington and Lee University’s Native American Cohort invites the community to celebrate Native American Heritage with special events throughout the academic year.
Testing sewage samples for the virus that causes COVID-19 is helping W&L to do targeted human testing and identify asymptomatic cases before they trigger large outbreaks.
Professor de Lissovoy gave an artist’s talk through the Virginia Museum of Contemporary Art.
The virtual event will be held on Sept. 24 at 7 p.m. and is open to the W&L community
Blunch served as the lead consultant on a Ghana case study for the World Bank's new index
The panel discussion, titled "Antiracism, White Activists, and Black Freedom," is free and open to the public to watch virtually.
The virtual performance, which is free and open the public, will be available to view via Livestream.
The acclaimed group is known worldwide for promoting social justice and human rights for all people and genders. The virtual exhibit and lecture are free and open to the public.
“Global Ethics in the 21st Century: Opportunities and Challenges,” a collaboration between the Mudd Center for Ethics and the Center for International Education, kicks off Sept. 24 with a keynote address by former U.S. ambassador and Sewanee University President Reuben E. Brigety.
Professor Stephanie Sandberg and Nolan Zunk ’22 co-directed “Intimate Violence,” which will be screened at Hull’s Drive-in to raise money for Project Horizon.
Twenty-four new full-time professors have joined the faculty this year.
Farmer and conservationist Bill Holliday ’65 spent his career fighting to preserve and protect South Carolina’s environment.
Philosophy Professor Melina Bell explains what policies could be adopted to help close the gap.
No tickets are required for the production, which will be performed at Blackfriars Playhouse in Staunton on Sept. 12 and streamed live in cinema quality. 
Next year, he will serve as president of the association, which supports African writers around the world.
Gavaler’s opinion piece is entitled “The problem with 'cancel culture'”
The Africana Studies Program at W&L, in partnership with the Rupert H. Johnson Jr. Program in Leadership and Integrity, will host a series of events focused on activism and Black life. It kicks off Aug. 26 with a panel discussion featuring three W&L faculty members.
As Executive Committee president for the 2020-21 school year, Chase Calhoun '21 hopes to protect the Honor System and make a positive impact in areas of racial inequality and systemic racism.
Franks, a professor of law at the University of Miami School of Law, will discuss the topic of her 2019 book, “The Cult of the Constitution: Our Deadly Devotion to Guns and Free Speech.”
Returning to campus in these circumstances will challenge us all, but teaching and learning together is what we do best, and it has never been more important.
The article, published in the Journal of Experimental Political Science, questions whether elected officials are more responsive to men than women inquiring about access to government services.
Studying philosophy and Arabic, traveling to Morocco and Beirut, and working with Professor Anthony Edwards to translate a Beiruti book have helped Tanner Hall '21 understand and appreciate other cultures.
Cage Tevis ’21, Bo Garfinkel ’21, Jeremiah Kohl ’22, Collin Frazey ’23 and Tanajia Moye-Green ’23 will study abroad.
Sadlowski has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany starting January 2021.
The commentary was published this week in The Roanoke Times.
After the pandemic canceled his original internship, Blake Sanchez '23 went to work for the Virginia Department of Health and the Campus Kitchen at W&L.
Chris Gavaler and Nathaniel Goldberg have published “Revising Fiction, Fact, and Faith: A Philosophical Account”
Moataz Khalifa, assistant professor and director of Data Education, is collaborating on a non-invasive, early detection system of the virus.
The book provides media professionals with the savvy they need to navigate the world of finance and money.
Fifteen W&L faculty members and two alumnae have signed on to help teach a Fall Term course that will cover multiple aspects of the COVID-19 crisis.
A generous donation of art last year from Rick Kramer '69 includes three works by Sam Gilliam, one of the most significant living artists of our time.
Hollis Owens ’97’s nonprofit offers people with disabilities opportunities to present to, and educate, schoolchildren about their lives.
A $27,600 grant from Associated Colleges of the South will allow for the development of phase two of ChemTutor, a tutorial system for students new to college-level chemistry.
Five professors from Washington and Lee University held an online panel offering “Perspectives on Black Protest: Comprehending the Current Crisis.”
This message summarizes the critical elements of our plan.
When her summer research trip to Nepal was canceled because of COVID-19, Danika Brockman went to work for the Rockbridge Area Relief Association, where she helps with the food pantry.
Immigrations and Customs Enforcement guidelines announced in July would have required international students to leave the U.S. if they were forced by COVID-19 to take only online courses.
Jennifer Beam Dowd ’96 is co-managing a Facebook page, “Dear Pandemic,” to provide evidence-based advice about COVID-19 to a general audience.
Nick Watson '22 is spending the summer working on housing issues as part of his Shepherd internship with the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity in Vermont.
W&L journalism professor Aly Colón is quoted in a piece about a recent decision by the AP Stylebook and other journalism institutions to begin capitalizing the B in Black in articles about people and culture.
A plate decorated with a widely distributed political cartoon of the American Revolution was used as commentary on the political, social and economic issues of the time.
In a piece published in The Nation, Locy asserts that General Robert E. Lee does not deserve to be associated with W&L. 
Miranda was invited on radio station KPFA’s UpFront to discuss Junipero Serra, the myth of California missions, and the colonization of native people.
The ESOL program at W&L, founded in 2001 to facilitate communication in the local community, now serves dozens of non-native English speakers each year with teaching, tutoring, translation and interpretation services.
The piece appeared in the June 19 edition of The Washington Post.
In his latest book, Morel explores how Lincoln’s most vital ideas are traced back to the country’s founders.
Wheeler’s first novel, “Unbecoming,” was recently published just two months after the release of her latest poetry collection, “The State She’s In.”
In the discussion, Morel explains why Juneteenth is a uniquely American holiday.
Hill appeared on a special episode entitled "Stronger Together – a Conversation About Racism."
Avalon Pernell, a rising sophomore from Alabama, appeared on a “College Roundtable” segment that featured college journalists interviewing the mayor of Pittsburgh.
Nickodem’s USTA position with Fulbright Austria starts in September 2020.
Bridget Bartley '21 interviews Shiri Yadlin '12, director of Just Homes, a nonprofit that helps faith communities address homelessness in D.C.
The recent graduate of Washington and Lee University won a combined scholarship of $8,500 for her second-place win and article of the year award in the 60th Annual Hearst National Writing Championship.
Julia Hernandez took a Spring Term class in Ghana and studied abroad in France and Morocco, proving that W&L is a gateway to opportunities all over the globe.
At W&L, Eric Herrera did field work in Ghana, created a biotech startup, and discovered the original location of the Alamo.
Jennings will start on August 10 and will succeed Dennis Cross, who is stepping down at the end of the calendar year after serving 16 years as W&L’s V.P. of university advancement.
Chris Johnson ’00 uses his camera to document the COVID-19 crisis.
Keller has received a USTA position with Fulbright Austria starting in October 2020.
The class will return to campus for its traditional in-person Commencement ceremony next spring.
In-person Commencement exercises for the Class of 2020 are scheduled to take place next spring.
At W&L, Katherine Ingram '20 found a research interest—and a future profession—where environmental studies meets economics.
Spring Term courses aim to provide innovative, one-of-a-kind educational experiences to W&L students. Online instruction during COVID-19 led to many new opportunities.
The three-night miniseries airs on the History channel beginning Monday, May 25 at 9 p.m.
Rivers has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Mexico starting January 2021.
Amid the COVID-19 outbreak, some Washington and Lee University journalism students learned that the news stops for nothing — not even a global pandemic. 
Peccie’s award is part of ODK’s 2020 General Russell E. Dougherty National Leader of the Year Competition.
Career and Professional Development Dean John Jensen '01 and his staff are busy providing career advice for Generals navigating a tricky economic landscape. 
Working in Italy, starring in theater productions and being involved in Generals' Unity are just a few of the experiences that have made W&L a great fit for Win Gustin '20.
Berger has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain starting January 2021.
Garfinkel will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton
Kelly Evans '07 interviewed Dudley about his hopes and plans for students' return to campus in the fall.
When Kara Lough '20 found W&L, she found a supportive environment that allowed her to lead a magazine, study in Italy, work as a photographer and plan a career.
Eight of the 23 students enrolled in music instructor Shuko Watanabe Petty’s Piano I and II classes had no piano at home. When instruction went online, she found a way to help.
Green was recently interviewed on NPR’s All Things Considered to discuss “The More Extravagant Feast.”
A new gift to the Reeves Museum of Ceramics documents how one artist is responding to the COVID-19 pandemic.
The title of his op-ed is “Might This Be the Beginning of Education?”
Despite a COVID-abbreviated run, the cast of W&L's "EVERYBODY" celebrates the "positive, self-affirming experience" of putting on the show. 
The online exhibition is the first comprehensive study of the artist's watercolors.
When the 25 members of W&L’s Repertory Dance Company were dispersed by COVID-19, director Jenefer Davies found a creative way for them to perform together again.
W&L’s admissions office is replacing in-person events canceled due to COVID-19 with personalized online outreach.
At W&L, Gareth Minson '20 has been able to forge his own educational path at the intersection of political philosophy, education policy and women, gender and sexuality studies.
In the “Unmarked” episode of the “Reel South” series, Rainville highlights her research into historic African American cemeteries.
Wheeler discusses tailoring remote instruction to best serve her students. 
During the COVID-19 pandemic, members of the Washington and Lee University community are finding ways to lend a hand with community relief efforts.
The fellowships will support 18 months of research and writing on Hindu law.
Final performances of "Considering Matthew Shepard" had to be canceled because of COVID-19, but the University Singers will never forget the powerful experience of telling Shepard's story.
This plate, a recent gift to W&L's Reeves Museum of Ceramics from local collectors Joan and Jay Crawford, provides a window into Chinese culture and the material lives of one of Virginia’s most prestigious families.  
In his first experience outside the U.S., Joshua Valdez '22 traveled to Argentina for a memorable internship.
Kipfer succeeds Scott Dittman, who will step down as registrar on June 30 after serving in the role for 35 years.
"The loss we felt at the suspension of campus life confirmed our love for this community. Our response was inspiring."
Scott Dittman has been awarded honorary membership by the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers.
Amid a national shortage of PPE, W&L employees put the IQ Center’s 3D printers to work making face shields and mask strap holders for local health care workers.
As city manager of New Rochelle, New York, Chuck Strome ’80 is at the center of New York's pandemic.
Kaylee Hartung '07, a graduate of the W&L journalism program, contracted the virus that causes COVID-19 while covering the outbreak in Washington State
For anyone participating in online learning during this time, there are several resources available through the museums that can help enrich the virtual classroom experience.
Amid the COVID-19 outbreak, Washington and Lee University’s CARPE and Academic Technologies offered expertise and resources to faculty preparing for online courses.
Linda Hooks, professor of economics and head of the W&L Economics Department, was interviewed by the News-Gazette.
Art Goldsmith was featured on the Morning Brew podcast “Business Casual”
The university has canceled all campus events featuring external speakers or visitors beginning at noon on Saturday, March 13 and continuing through Saturday, April 18.
Sascha L. Goluboff, professor and chair of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Washington and Lee University, has been named the university’s next director of community-based learning. W&L Provost Marc Conner announced the three-year appointment, which will begin on July 1.
Author and historian Ryan Cole will give a public lecture at W&L on March 23.
This summer, Sezen will receive two months of intensive training with leading faculty at Michigan State University in microeconomics, math, econometrics and research methods.
Representatives from area day camps and sleepover camps will be available to share information about their 2020 summer programs.
W&L's studio art majors present their senior projects in an online exhibition.
Her talk is titled "Not Everything That Counts Can Be Counted: Observations on the Historic and Contemporary Role of the Liberal Arts.”
Her talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled "Barely Legal: Political Ads, Social Media and #sponcon."
Washington and Lee University's Office of Community-Based Learning has partnered with Lexington on projects that provide real-world learning experiences for students while also advancing the city's goals.
Six students from Washington and Lee University participated in The Virginia Foundation for Independent Colleges’ 21st annual statewide collegiate Wells Fargo Ethics Bowl in February.
Moyers will speak on addiction and recovery.
A new play by Professor Domnica Radulescu gives voice to local immigrants.
Atkinson will speak on “Where I am is Who I am: Plotting Spatial Demographics in Renaissance Florence.”
The conference is titled Ethics and Technology: Surveillance, Civil Rights, and Cyber-Security.
The event is free and open to the public, and books will be available to purchase following the reading.
Writer Branden Jacobs-Jenkins, who based this play on the anonymous 15th-century "Everyman," presents a new take on an old story and the old question of what happens when we cross over to the other side.
No tickets are required.
W&L presents a faculty recital featuring Julia Goudimova on cello and Anna Billias on piano in an evening of romantically inclined music of Nordic countries.
W&L’s first Black Future Leaders Experience (FLEX) conference brought alumni and staff together to mentor students from across central Virginia on how to thrive in white spaces, navigate politics and serve as leaders.
Quashie teaches black cultural and literary studies at Brown University.
Strong spoke on President Jimmy Carter’s pre-White House days and his complicated relations with the civil rights movement in Georgia.
The conference is free and open to the public.
“Considering Matthew Shepard” tells the now infamous true story and aftermath of the kidnapping, torture and murder of Matthew Shepard near Laramie, Wyoming, in 1998. Tickets are required for the performance.
Having played in every kind of venue imaginable, from coffee houses to world-class concert halls, Haimovitz creates music for every kind of audience.
The Rhodes Scholarship, which averages $70,000 per year and up to as much as $250,000, fully funds two to four years of study at the University of Oxford in England.
A class in Denmark, an internship in India and lots of eye-opening experiences in the Lexington community have encouraged Amanda Dorsey '21 to advocate for inclusion in the public health field.
The deadline for submitting a proposal for the Spring 2020 evaluation is 4:30 p.m. on Friday, March 6, 2020.
The celebration includes a film screening, a faculty panel and a trivia game. All events are free and open to the public.
Vaughan holds a bachelor’s degree in biology from Harvard University, a master’s degree in library science from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and a doctorate from Arizona State University. She succeeds John Tombarge, who will step down on June 30 after serving in the role for seven years. 
Tickets are not required.
The prediction is the result of years of research conducted by student state and territory chairs, regional chairs and national and democratic party analysts.
John Knox, Skip Williams, and Maryanne Simurda were awarded $15,000 for their research on Helenium virginicum, or Virginia sneezeweed.
W&L's Black Law Student Association fosters collegiality and mentorship.
A panel discussion will feature six leading business journalists who cover big financial and economic stories.
The title of his op-ed is "It's Time to Get Rid of Distribution Requirements."
Nominations for W&L’s LEAD Banquet Awards allow any member of the university community to recognize a student or group’s outstanding contributions in one or more of 23 areas.
Eight students and three faculty received Fulbright awards for 2019-2020.
W&L’s Mock Con, one of the most ambitious student political research projects in the country, this year aims to predict the Democratic Party’s presidential nominee.
As director of communications for Mock Con 2020, Annie Lentz '20 applies her love of mass communications and politics to promote and protect a 112-year-old legacy.
The title of Rush’s piece is “If the electors can be faithless, why have an Electoral College?”
A student-led annual celebration of black literary culture opened the Student Association for Black Unity’s programming for Black History Month at Washington and Lee University.
Shrayer will read from and discuss his new book, “A Russian Immigrant: Three Novellas.”
Jackson Roberts ’19, Ryann Carpenter ’20 and biology professors Sarah Blyth and Natalia Toporikova co-authored a paper published in the Journal of Endocrine Research.
“Running Home” tells the story of humanitarian, accomplished middle-distance runner and coach Tony Ruiz.
Joukhadar will read from and discuss his new novel, “The Thirty Names of Night.”
Mock Con Political Chair John Harashinski '20 hopes to carry on the event's legacy of accurate predictions using lessons from courses in political analysis and leadership.
The lecture is free and open to the public.
The concert is free, and no tickets are required.
Shaun Soman '17, was appointed assistant news director of WORT, a community radio station in Madison, Wisconsin.
An all-student team has created a versatile app for Mock Con 2020, bringing ticketing, program information and image sharing onto attendees’ phones and eliminating thousands of pages of printed material.
Lainey Johnson '16 values connections with a variety of people from different backgrounds, which is something she learned to prize at W&L. 
Their talk is titled "The New Appendage: Cellphones in Cognitive and Behavioral Context."
Friends of Professor DeLaney established the scholarship to honor his commitment to teaching and mentoring students.
The university’s first Black Future Leaders Experience Conference will take place on Feb. 8.
The concert is free and open to the public, and a reception will follow the performance.
The article highlights Latin American stories to look out for in 2020.
“When It Breaks,” oil paintings on canvas by Nick Alexander, is on display at the McCarthy Gallery in Holekamp Hall now through May 31, 2020.
W&L Law has announced a partnership with the Corella & Bertram F. Bonner Foundation that will provide a $10,000 annual scholarship for Bonner alumni admitted to the school.
Emma Ernst '20 attended the Student Conference on U.S. Affairs at West Point and challenged herself to explore unfamiliar aspects of policy.
Drum Tao’s stage is created through performances and expressions consisting of “Wadaiko-drums.”
W&L's Founders Day/ODK Convocation will take place on Jan. 21 at 5 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
All proceeds will support Campus Kitchen at W&L’s Backpack Program.
Want to work for the U.S. Congress? Judging by past successes, earning a degree from Washington and Lee University is a pretty good start.
 In 2021, students will have the opportunity to study in Ghana for both Winter and Spring Terms.
He taught at W&L from 1957 to 2001.
Spending the summer in Nicoya, Costa Rica, helped Montgomery Owen '21 to strengthen his Spanish language skills.
Sydney Lee '21 spent summer 2019 studying Spanish and falling in love with the town of Nicoya, Costa Rica.
The title of Lynn Rainville’s talk is “Untold Stories of Founders, Leaders and Other Visionaries at W&L.”
Coddington’s book is titled “Aggregating the News: Secondhand Knowledge and the Erosion of Journalistic Authority.”
Washington and Lee's week-long celebration of the life and legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. will include an address by Ruby Bridges, who helped to integrate New Orleans public schools.
The Grammy Award-winning male a cappella group is in its 41st season.
The artists will give a public presentation, followed by a reception, on Jan. 28 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
Mock Con 2020 Financial Chair Elizabeth Thompson '20 works with the rest of the Financial Team to raise and manage significant sums for a successful event.
King served as a guest curator for an exhibit of six René Magritte paintings, which opened on Dec. 1.
Marc Conner, provost and Jo M. and James M. Ballengee Professor of English at Washington and Lee University, has been named president of Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, New York. He will begin his new role on July 1, 2020.
Provost Marc Conner worked with John Callahan, the literary executor of the Ellison estate, to co-edit and publish the collection. 
The ceremony will take place Jan. 20 in the Senshin’an Tea Room.
Lynn Rainville was interviewed for a recent WUSF News article titled “Anthropologist: Building Over African American Cemeteries Not Just A Southern Problem.”
Washington and Lee University presents the American Shakespeare Center’s “The Grapes of Wrath” on Jan. 25.
Luke Basham '20 parlays a passion for politics into the challenging role of Democratic Party analyst for Mock Con 2020.
Jhade Jordan ’21 pays tribute to her mentor Susan Swazy '90.
Suzanne LaFleur ’05 keeps it real for her young readers.
Snyder is a journalist known for her works on the topic of domestic violence.
Franklin Foer, a national correspondent for The Atlantic and a fellow at the New American Foundation, will give a public lecture at W&L.
Laurie Jones '21 is grateful for the opportunities she's had at W&L, especially her place on the golf team and the chance to study through the Peace and Conflict Program in Ireland and Jordan.
Hannah Denham ’20 won first place in a prestigious feature writing competition for a piece she wrote during an internship at The Washington Post.
Students in Leah Green's Intro to Creative Writing course took inspiration from the environment at Boxerwood Nature Center and Woodland Garden.
W&L hosted “The Economics of Foreign Aid” discussion colloquia in collaboration with the Institute for Human Studies (IHS) at George Mason University.
Tickets to the show can be ordered online or at the box office.
 The title of Bodel's lecture was "The epigraphic habit and the epigraphic mode."
On the show, Woodzicka talks about her research on sexual harassment.
Smithsonian flew Benefiel to Pompeii in May 2019 to interview on-site.
The committee chose the grants from 20 proposals requesting almost $85,000.
How Mock Con General Secretary Layne Smith '20 stays sane under the pressure of academics, Mock Con 2020 and acting as head hearing advisor for the W&L Honor System.
Brian Alexander has been awarded a domestic fellowship at the International Center for Jefferson Studies (ICJS) at Monticello.
As general chair for Mock Con 2020, Jimmy Fleck '20 uses his political knowledge and business skills to lead a team of stand-out students toward a historic moment.
Gabriele, a 2019 graduate, is the university’s 17th Rhodes Scholar.
Working with Campus Kitchen at Washington and Lee has made Hannah Witherell '20 determined to continue helping others after she leaves W&L.
Museums at Washington and Lee will take part in Lexington's Museum Week and host Poinsettias at the Chapel during December.
Students in Washington and Lee University's Electrical Circuits class sparked interest in local elementary students through a Community-Based Learning project that partnered with the Rockbridge Area YMCA after-school program. 
The students joined fellow Virginia Foundation for Independent Colleges students from across the Commonwealth for a three-day summit.
Campus Kitchen runs a variety of holiday-themed events during the month of November.
 “A Literary Field Guide to Southern Appalachia” contains poems from three W&L faculty members.
Danika Brockman '21 interviews Natasha Lerner '13 about making a difference in women's health.
The event is free and open to the public.
The event is free and open to the public.
Her public talk is titled "Corporate Bankruptcy 101."
Law students find success at public sector job fair.
The Elmes Pathfinder Prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
Morel’s piece is titled “America Wasn’t Founded on White Supremacy: A Rebuttal to the ‘1619 Project.’”
The title of Schatten’s article is “Prison: Where Undergrads and Inmates Take Classes Together.”
Allie Jue '20 has learned how to keep her studies in music and pre-med in perfect harmony with a job and extracurricular activities at W&L.
The concert is free, and no tickets are required.
 Call the Lenfest Center box office today at 540-458-8000 to reserve tickets.
Eubanks' talk is titled "The Shakedown State: Digital Debt, Economic Inequality and Automation in Public Services."
A two-year grant of $50,000 will help the Washingtonian Society, Washington and Lee University’s collegiate recovery program for substance abuse and addiction.
Senior Laura Calhoun looks back at her W&L experience and celebrates the community she's built here. 
The public reading is free and open to the public.
Attendees will discover the technology, insights and trends shaping the future of data and analytics.
As Native American Heritage Month kicks off, University Collections of Art and History invites you to see artwork by Native American artists and featuring Native American people and cultures.
 Call the Lenfest Box Office at 540-458-8000 to get your name on the waiting list.
 He will be recognized at a luncheon ceremony in Richmond on Nov. 7.
 Clifford Ando’s and Winnifred Fallers Sullivan’s lectures are free and open to the public.
The team won the Mentor Award at the Adrenaline Film Project.
Chaisson’s lecture, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Cosmic Evolution.”
This concert is free and open to the public. No tickets are required.
The show is free and open to the public.
W&L's new outdoor classroom, which offers wireless technology, writing surfaces and movable furniture, opened for Fall Term 2019.
The performance will be dedicated to the memory of Dymphna Alexander.
 Toplak is a constitutional scholar and election law expert at the University of Maribor, Slovenia.
Kahn has been invited to give the opening keynote speech at the Exposition of Sustainability of the Industrial Pole of Manaus.
These pitches won the Entrepreneurship Summit audience with cutting edge approaches and an ambitious outlook for expansion.
Tickets are free, but required.
An exhibition of photographic works by Texas-based artist Mari Hernandez will open in Washington and Lee’s Staniar Gallery Nov. 5.
Nissenbaum's talk, which is free, is titled "Privacy as Contextual Integrity: Thwarting the Great Regulatory Dodge."
The title of Strong’s piece is “Impeachment and Democracy.”
In the piece, Michelmore is quoted from her 2012 book, “Tax and Spend: The Welfare State, Tax Politics, and the Limits of American Liberalism.” 
The piece explains Rainville's role at Washington and Lee and the work she is doing on campus.
In the spirit of Halloween, Thorburn and Wappel will create a musical soundscape inspired by the legends, literature and classic films of the season.
Miranda’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “’Coyote Learns a New Trick’: Beth Brant and Two-Spirit Literatures.”
Established in the spring of 2008, the purpose of the program is to support non-profit organizations in the Lexington/Rockbridge community.
Julianna Keeling ’19 applied her passion for the environment to build a company focused on biodegradable consumer products. 
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream” is a tale built on multiple storylines that interfere with each other and create an irresistible web of mayhem and mischief.
Arkin is a roboticist and roboethicist.
In the article, Lind discusses the unique education students receive at W&L.
The conversation will address how the news media grapples with ethics in confrontational times. 
Casey was appointed by Virginia Governor Ralph Northam.
The concert is free and open to the public, and no tickets are required. 
 The article presents an analysis of the main political events of 2018 in Peru.
The conference provides undergraduate economics students with information on a range of career paths open to them after graduation.
The piece discusses their research studies into sci-fi and the effect it has on human intelligence.
The Conversation recently published an article written by Mark Rush titled “The Electoral College will never make everyone happy.”
Q&A with Eentrepreneur Cory Allison ’94. 
George Barker '20 used both of his majors⁠, computer science and chemistry, to help build a website that makes a challenging subject more approachable for students.
Tickets are free but required, and they are offered first to W&L parents and family.
Campbell's talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled "The Giants of Africa: What's Next for South Africa and Nigeria?"
Rainville's lecture is titled "At Home with the Presidents: An Ethno-Historic Study of Everyday Life at Lee House." 
She is the assistant director of the Furious Flower Poetry Center
Baker has covered four presidents for the New York Times and Washington Post: Donald Trump, Barack Obama, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton.
Hannah Denham ’20 and Edwin Campos ’20 are president and co-president of W&L’s English for Speakers of Other Languages Program.
The duo will be discussing their new book, “Superhero Thought Experiments.”
Bridget Washington '21 discusses her role as the Connolly Entrepreneurship Society's chair of marketing for the W&L's 8th Annual Entrepreneurship Summit (Sept. 27-28).
Zelizer’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled: “Political Polarization and the Road to the Trump Presidency.”
The reading is free and open to the public, with books for sale following the event.
Smith’s talk is titled “An Ethical Framework for a God-Like Intellect.”
Scott Dittman, longtime university registrar at Washington and Lee, will step down from that post effective June 30, 2020. He will continue working at W&L as special consultant to the provost during a six-month transition period before retiring in December 2020.
The Law, Justice, and Society Program offers an interdisciplinary approach to legal studies that draws from faculty and resources in all three schools at Washington and Lee University.
The popular pre-orientation program for first-year students at Washington and Lee University this year added a trip dedicated to black history and the civil rights movement. 
The rankings are based on the amount of renewable energy available per full-time equivalent student.
In the article, Bassiouny answered common questions about foreign transactions and credit card fees. 
The discussion is free and open to the public.
The works will be on display through Nov.1, with an artist’s talk and reception on Oct.16 at 5:30 p.m.
The episode aired on “The Great Books” podcast series.
The event, which is free and open to the public, is titled "The Future of the Amazon Rain Forest."
Beth Lucy-Speidel, executive director of the SC Johnson College of Business Academic Administration and Dyson Leadership Programs at Cornell University, is the new associate dean of the college at Washington and Lee University. She will begin her work on Sept. 23.
Chris Gavaler and Nathaniel Goldberg published “Superhero Thought Experiments.”
Bovay is one of approximately 200 board-certified tax lawyers in Florida. 
As a recipient of this award, Gilbert was recognized at the 2019 SIOP Annual Conference at the National Harbor in Fort Washington, Maryland, in April.
The focus will be the "1619 Project" and the U.S. Constitution.
The event, which is open to all students, provides multiple opportunities to network with alumni entrepreneurs from a variety of industries.
A video introduction to some of W&L's newest Generals
The program will include 14 works, all of which were performed by Gaylard in recitals between 1987 and 2017.
The works will be on display through Sept. 27, with an artist’s talk and reception on Sept. 18. 
The talk is free and open to the public.
The concert at W&L will focus on nationalism in music.
The Campus Kitchen at Washington and Lee has received $1,725 from the Food Lion Feeds Charitable Foundation.
Who are we? Professor Alison Bell '91 uncovers clues about W&L’s complex identity through artifacts recovered near Liberty Hall Ruins.
Maggie Ogilvie Stacy ’97 stays connected to her community as president of the board of the Ronald McDonald House in Houston.
The Cleveland Daily Banner published an article about Jenne's SHECP internship at City of Refuge in Atlanta.
In the discussion, Morel explains the history behind the Lincoln-Douglas debates.
n the podcast, Schatten and Dudley discuss organizational culture and values.
The talk is free and open to the public.
Johnston’s talk is titled “The Good Parent in an Age of Gene Editing: How Novel Genetic Technologies Challenge Parental Responsibility.” 
Pulitzer Prize winners Susanne Craig and Rachel Abrams to visit W&L Sept. 19
 The group will light up the stage with their traditionally Zimbabwean music ranging from genres such as Afro Jazz and Gospel music. 
The concert is free and open to the public, and no tickets are required.
Conner is provost and the Jo M. and James Ballengee Professor of English at Washington and Lee University. 
This summer, Ginny Johnson '20 served as a peer mentor to nine rising sophomores as part of the Keck Geology Consortium trip to Belize, where Professor Lisa Greer continued her research project into the staghorn coral population.
Strong’s talk is titled “George Washington and Education.”
Maya Lora has always wanted to be a storyteller for public good. This summer, she did just that as a reporting intern for her hometown paper, the Miami Herald.
Ellen Mayock, the Ernest Williams II Professor of Spanish at Washington and Lee University, co-authored a Spanish textbook, “Indagaciones.” 
Myer's talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “A Civil War Murder(?) Mystery: The Death and Burial of Lt. John Rodgers Meigs.”
The title of Sue’s lecture is “Microaggressions: Toxic Rain on College Campuses."
The screening, which is free and open to the public, will advance the Lexington conference of the South Sudanese Diaspora Network for Reconciliation and Peace (SSDNRP). 
The Cape Town Program, a partnership between the Williams School and the Shepherd Program, provides students with an interdisciplinary experience they'll never forget.
Bebe Goodrich '07 discusses her entrepreneurial journey and how it was shaped by W&L's Entrepreneurship Summit.
As the only intern for the Arena Football League's communications coordinator, journalism major Jimmie Johnson '20 has been able to pitch and create his own multimedia content.
Davies was recently interviewed on ABC Radio Australia about his current research.
This summer, geology and environmental science major Chantal Iosso ’20 is studying the effects of the Jordan's Point Dam removal on the Maury River.
The article is a part of his forthcoming book, “A Social Theory of Congress: Legislative Norms in the Twenty-First Century.”
The scholarship is named after Kenneth Ruscio ’76, Washington and Lee University president emeritus and ODK’s national president from 2002-06. 
In writing the collection, Smith drew from historical sources and used his imagination and empathy to bring voices of the past to life.
Ben Peeples '21 is enjoying a chemistry internship at Brown University while training for the World Canoeing Championships in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
For Darcy Olmstead '21 and Lindsey Hewitt '21, analyzing art in the Netherlands and the U.S. with Professor Erich Uffelman has been an educational 'dream come true.'
Horowitz’s article is titled “Sherlock Holmes Comes to Paris: True Crime and Private Detection in the Belle Époque.”
The article discusses taxation and Democratic aspirations.
Myers will hold the position for a three-year period.
Working with ICU patients at Vanderbilt University Medical Center through the Allen Grant has reaffirmed neuroscience major Laney Smith's desire to become a surgeon.
The article is titled “The Changing Shapes of Latin American Welfare States."
The grant will help fund a project to bring professors from the six ACS dance departments to participating campuses and create a model for shared teaching.
Four Washington and Lee University students are spending time this summer in Beirut, where they are immersed in Arabic language and Lebanese culture.
The fellowship lasts a full academic year and allows students to conduct formal research and pursue advocacy efforts on a specific topic.
Through coursework and connections, Hannah Archer '20 helped to create a school food service program to ensure that local children have enough to eat during the summer. 
Baumeyer is working this summer as a SHECP intern in Charleston, West Virginia.
James Ricks '21 is spending the summer working for The Oda Foundation in Nepal, where he is researching tobacco use and working with children to create a mural that represents health in their town.
Adriana Corral on her Installation of "Unearthed: Desenterrado" in Rural Virginia
Scholars will spend four weeks of their summer exploring the world of modern scientific research at some of the nation’s leading laboratories and universities. 
W&L courses in economics and biology used community-based learning to engage in partnerships and make an impact on food insecurity at a local level.
After learning about natural hazards and their impact on society, students in this geology course took a mind-blowing field trip to Mount St. Helens.
With the support of faculty and fellow students, Charlotte Cook '19 acted in seven theater productions at W&L while juggling a major, two minors and other extracurricular activities.
As a candidate on the Fulbright Specialist Roster, Rush is now eligible to be matched with projects designed by host institutions in over 150 countries globally.
Blunch will visit the Economics Department in the Business School of Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul.
In Professor Rob Mish’s Spring Term class, students take on virtually every aspect of creating a fully staged theatrical production. 
Sascha Goluboff's Spring Term class, Cults, took an in-depth look at the development and process behind misunderstood religions.
 Artist Adriana Corral spent two days creating a site-specific wall drawing in W&L's Staniar Gallery to accompany her exhibition. Here's a look at that process.
Green was recently interviewed on NPR’s Morning Edition for the bicentennial of American poet Walt Whitman’s birth.
In Professor David Marsh's Spring Term class, the Blue Ridge Mountains became a living laboratory for the study of salamanders.
The medical researcher travels, teaches and conducts research to eliminate neglected tropical diseases.
This year’s seminar will focus on “The Impact of Digitalization on the Future of Higher Education.” 
In his Commencement address, President Dudley described the multitude of ways in which the Class of 2019's W&L education has prepared them for a lifetime of learning, leadership and service.
While at Washington and Lee, Lencioni has taken several German classes and studied abroad in Berlin.
 Each scholar is awarded $7,500 to support undergraduate research in their junior or senior year.
W&L celebrates its 232nd undergraduate commencement Thursday, May 23. LIVESTREAM: 10 a.m.
As part of an immersive Spring Term sociology course, students created a campus-wide event to serve as a real-world study on inclusivity.
Professor Yumiko Naito’s Spring Term class, Cool Japan: Manga, Business Etiquette, Language and Culture, approaches learning in a delicious and hands-on way.
“The House of Yes” is presented through special arrangement with Dramatists Play Service.
 The scholarship was created to encourage more American students to study in the Middle East. 
The fellowship, made possible by The Lila Wallace – Reader’s Digest Fund, is designed for scholars who explore “Italy in the World.” 
In the Genetic Engineering and Society SIn the Genetic Engineering and Society Spring Term class, students focus on the intersection of science, medicine, law, agriculture, ethics and public policy.pring Term class, students focus on the intersection of science, medicine, law, agriculture and public policy.
At Harvard, Leah Gose '15 has conducted a complex study of organizations that provide food to people in need.
Virginia's largest craft brewer, Devils Backbone Brewing Co., serves students of analytical chemistry hands-on learning, grain to glass.
W&L’s Alpha Circle of ODK, the national leadership honor society, inducted seven new undergraduate members and five honorary initiates.
Hester will participate in an intensive eight-week Chinese language course at Shaanxi Normal University.
Jin will be working for Dürr System AG in Bietigheim Bissingen in Baden Württemberg, Germany, a small town near Stuttgart.
Although W&L has produced student-cast operas in the past, this is the first time students have been able to enroll in a credit-bearing opera workshop.
Current Advances in Psychological Science: Sleep, Health and Society, a Spring Term course taught by Ryan Brindle, explores the basics of sleep, why people need it, and the impacts of sleep deprivation.
Megan Hill Gambrill ’05 had long fantasized about a job where she’d get to play in the dirt all day.
Krista Camp ’13 is on the front lines of one of America’s most contentious issues — immigration.
Christina Cheadle ’16 is a community and events manager for KonMari Media Inc., the company founded by tidying expert and Netflix star Marie Kondo.
All three shows are free and open to the public, and no tickets are required.
We asked professors to share course materials and discussion questions to offer a sneak peek at the breadth of opportunities available during the best term of the year. 
The scholarship will cover his remaining undergraduate tuition, a stipend, summer internships and then a job upon graduation.
Students in the Spring Term course Drawing in Place practice observational drawing in a beautiful setting near Lexington.
Our favorite term is well underway! Here is a glimpse inside some of the many fascinating courses being taught off-campus this year.
The keynote speaker for kickoff weekend will be John Heilemann, a political journalist who hosts Showtime’s “The Circus” and serves as a political analyst for MSNBC and NBC News. 
 Reese is an English major and studio art minor. 
Professor of Art Christa Bowden's Spring Term course, Antique Photo Processes, focuses entirely on 19th-century photo processes. 
Syed is a biology major and a Middle East and South Asia studies minor.
Camp’s lecture, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Discovering Baghdad: How Writing My Father’s Story Took Me to the Tigris.” 
Hiromasa says her time at Washington and Lee and various volunteer opportunities she has participated in have prepared her for this next step in her educational journey.
Layne Setash '19 recently earned a Distinguished Teacher Award from the Virginia Association of Colleges of Teacher Education.
Xinxian Wang '21, a student at Washington and Lee University, has won a $10,000 Davis Projects for Peace grant.
W&L will recognize the outstanding contributions of professor and alumnus Ted DeLaney ’85.
Christopher McCrackin ’20 has won a $34,000 Beinecke Scholarship to help fund his graduate studies. 
Reid Gaede ’19 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany. 
Sophie Wilks ’21 has won a $4,300 Nemours Summer Undergraduate Research Scholarship for her project. 
Six student teams, selected from 11 semi-finalist teams, participated in the annual W&L Business Plan Competition finals on Saturday, April 6. The teams took home a total of $7,000 in cash prizes.
Gastañaga's lecture, which is free and open to the public, is titled "Racial Justice at the Ballot Box: Moving Beyond Restoration of Rights." 
W&L students and faculty, as well as members of the Rockbridge Ballet, will participate in the event.
Hannah Denham '20 and Maya Lora '20 earned awards for their reporting and writing.
Tsvetkova will be working at Robert Bosch GmbH a large multinational engineering and electronics company.
CBYX is a yearlong fellowship, funded by the German Bundestag and U.S. Congress through the U.S. Department of State. 
Washington and Lee University senior Kathryn McEvoy ’19 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain for summer 2019. 
Washington and Lee University senior Jackson Ellis ’19 has won a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany for summer 2019.
Sigler was nominated her for the award by a current student.
The Geology and Archaeology departments collaborated with W&L's Outing Club to create a fun, educational hike just a short drive from Lexington.
Students took first place in three categories in the Society of Professional Journalists’ regional college journalism competition.
Agrippina has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain.
NEH grant awards support cultural infrastructure projects, advanced scholarly research, humanities exhibitions and documentaries and the preservation of historical collections.
 In Tanzania, Mugo will study the perception of the life of refugees after resettlement.
The weekend’s seminar will feature Delia Owens, author of the critically acclaimed debut novel “Where the Crawdads Sing."
The show will be on display from April 22–May 24.
Carpenter will study in Lübeck, Germany, at the University of Lübeck. She will work in a lab that focuses on the dietary regulation of tissue circadian clock function in mice.
Thanks to an exchange program funded by the Japanese government, a group of W&L students spent Washington Break immersed in the culture of Japan—and welcomed Kanazawa University students to W&L one month later.
Delegates representing the more than 300 circles of Omicron Delta Kappa (ODK) gathered in Charlotte, North Carolina, to review and vote upon a new governance structure.
Dau will live and work in Vienna for nine months.
The event celebrated many individual and student accomplishments.
Fon Teawdatwan '19 has led three service trips to Charleston, West Virginia, for Volunteer Venture, a service-learning, pre-orientation program for incoming students.
The partnership will bring the company’s national tour and on-site workshops to W&L’s campus.
Mimi Miller '21 interviews Jennifer Smyrnos '12L  about practicing immigration law, a career that was inspired in part by her family heritage.
At Washington and Lee University, Hernandez is majoring in sociology and anthropology and French.
The PPIA fellowship program helps students achieve a master’s or joint degree, typically in public policy, public administration, international affairs or a related field.
Minson is a politics major, with a minor in women’s gender and sexuality studies. 
Leah Naomi Green, visiting assistant professor of English at W&L, was selected by Li-Young Lee as the winner of the 2019 Walt Whitman Award.
The all-student band is comfortable performing in a wide range of styles, and this concert will present an impressive gamut.
The show is free and open to the public. 
At W&L, a combination of incredible courses, extracurricular opportunities and a warm community made for an experience Will Shannon '19 calls "uniquely mine."
Her scholarship will fund a nine- to 12-month study of small-scale cultural heritage looting operations in the Golden Triangle of India.
 The concert is open to the public, and no tickets are required.
Jeff Schatten, assistant professor of business administration at Washington and Lee University, said he launched the podcast in part because of student input.
Patterson will be interning with a lab at the Senckenberg Natural History Collections in Dresden, Germany.
His statement was given at a public hearing at the EPA headquarters in Washington, D.C. on Mon., Mar. 18.
The performance is a preview of the group’s upcoming tour of Scotland.
Lynn Rainville, community initiatives fellow at the University of Virginia’s Institute for Advanced Technology in the Humanities and former dean of Sweet Briar College, will be the inaugural Director of Institutional History at Washington and Lee University.
The program will include multifaceted dance works created by nationally renowned choreographers, as well as new aerial dance technology.
 The show is free and open to the public.
Each spring, the W&L art department showcases the senior theses of studio majors in a professional gallery setting.
Area day camps and sleepover camps will be available to share information on their 2019 summer programs.
Baron became executive editor of the Post in 2013. There, he oversees print and digital news operations and a staff of more than 800 journalists.
Reid Calhoun ‘17 shares how his vision for the future inspires his annual giving.
At W&L, sustainability starts with a seed and blossoms into sea change. Take a peek inside our gardening and composting effort to see how it's impacting our community — and the future.
Edwin Castellanos Campos '20 came up with the idea for the special edition after taking a Spring Term sociology/anthropology course about U.S. immigration and refugees.
Sykes will be working this summer with Ernst & Young in Frankfurt.
The Science, Society and the Arts conference at W&L, which takes place March 15-16, brings together people of all disciplines to celebrate the good work taking place within the university community.
Finch will give a public talk on March 20 at 4:30 p.m. on the main floor of Leyburn Library on the W&L campus. 
Lear's  talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “What Would It Be to Mourn Gettysburg?"
In his lecture, which is free and open to the public, Phillips will discuss his newest book “Looming Civil War: How Nineteenth-Century Americans Imagined the Future.”
Becoming a part of the Outing Club at Washington and Lee completely changed Matt Richards's college experience. "My time with the Outing Club has without a doubt had the biggest impact on my time here," he said.
Washington Break at W&L is about exploration, whether that discovery involves Texas mountaintops, Japanese culture or career opportunities in New York.
Olubunmi is an entrepreneur and global advocate for migrants, refugees, and internally displaced people. Her talk, free and open to the public, is entitled “When Lions Write: Innovations in Advocacy.”
Yeboah's talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Africa Economic Transformation: The Role of Youth.”
MaKayla Lorick '19 is collecting oral histories from African-American alumni, faculty and staff as part of a project that aims to include those missing perspectives in Washington and Lee University's history of desegregation and integration.
Barabas’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Dodging Silver Bullets: Understanding the Role of Technology in Social Change.”
“The Cherry Orchard” is the final full play written by Anton Chekhov, who is considered by many to be the father of modern drama.
On March 1, W&L’s University Collections of Art and History will open its newest exhibit, "Breaking the Chains: Ceramics and the Abolition Movement."
The title of McMahon’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is “Brexit on the Border: What We Know and Don’t Know about Irish/UK Relations.”
The title of his talk, which is free and open to the public, is “Grammatical Gender and Roman Conceptions of Poetry, Gods, and the More-Than-Human.”
The award recognizes faculty at Virginia’s institutions of higher learning who exemplify the highest standards of teaching, scholarship and service.
Alexander’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “The Untold Story of Africa's Migrant and Refugee Crisis."
Luban’s lecture, which is titled "The Ethics of Professional Identities in Law and War,” will explore facets of professional identity.
Will’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Lowering the Temperature, and the Stakes, of Politics.” 
McGowan’s lecture, which is free and open to the public, is titled “The Politics of Sacrificial Enjoyment: Freud and the Death Drive."
Their public performance is titled “Old Made New.”
Talamantes has released two albums: “Heaven and Earth: a Duke Ellington Songbook” and “Canciones Españolas.”
W&L is included on the list of U.S. colleges and universities that produced the most 2018-2019 Fulbright U.S. Students.
The two-day event focused on ethics and social justice issues.
The title of Barnett’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is “Lost (And Found Again) in Translation.”
University Collections of Art and History recently purchased prints by iconic American artists Thomas Hart Benton and James Abbott McNeill Whistler, and they are already being incorporated into courses in art and art history. 
Mark Rush's piece was published Feb. 13 in the Richmond Times-Dispatch.
Margaret Kallus ’19 will be the second W&L alumna to join a team of economists at the Harvard University research institute, Opportunity Insights.
Washington and Lee will host a public screening of “Triton: America’s Deep Secret” on Feb. 26 at 6 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater on the W&L campus. 
The title of Gary Staab’s presentation is “Digital Dinosaurs: Fleshing out the Past." 
Hannah Denham, ’20, is one of the top 20 finalists in the Hearst Journalism Awards’ enterprise writing contest.
Zainab Abiza '19 interviews Morten Wendelbo '12 about his research focusing on economic development, humanitarian aid and food security.
Averett’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Frightening the Frightful: Grotesque Visages from Ancient Cyprus.”
Fred LaRiviere, associate professor of chemistry and biochemistry at Washington and Lee University, is the new associate dean of the college, beginning Feb. 11.
Students in General Physics Lab I send eggs bungee jumping in the Science Center. The goal? Calculate correctly lest your project be a bust.
“An Afternoon with Rebecca Traister,” on Feb. 11 at 5:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, is free and open to the public.
Late professor emeritus Harry Pemberton is the first W&L faculty member to be recognized as an Honored Benefactor.
In the Feb 5. op-ed, Strong examines Trump's "norm-shattering presidential behaviors."
The duet features W&L music faculty Julia Goudimova, on cello and Anna Billias, on piano and highlights 20th-century composers.
The Elizabeth Lewis Otey Professor of East Asian Studies takes a bug-eyed view of history.
He taught at W&L from 1974 to 2011.
Andy Smithey '20 is editor-in-chief of a new student publication, founded by Liv Cooper '20 and Genna Feirson '20, that aims to amplify unheard voices on campus.
The concert will take place in Wilson Hall, and is free and open to the public.
The artists will present their work in a talk on Feb. 12 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
Hannah Denham '20 has combined business journalism with women and gender studies at W&L to create a liberal arts education that suits her interests and ambition.
The title of her talk, which is free and open to the public, is "Exile in Memory."
Don't miss the one-night performance of “Antigone” on Feb. 8 at 7:30 p.m. in the Keller Theatre.
The title of Wayne Dymacek’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is “My Life and Times with Dots and Lines.”
The leadership organization also presented the James G. Leyburn Award to Srimayi B. “Tinni” Sen.
 In her speech, which is free and open to the public, Mourao will discuss the role news organizations play, not only in spinning news, but also in legitimizing topics and people.
Proceeds will support CKWL's Backpack Program, a hunger-fighting project that began in 2009.
He taught at W&L from 1960 to 2007.
R. Alan Winstead ’85 is a driving force for the  Meals on Wheels program in his community.
Coleman's talk, “In Times Like These: Responsive and Responsible Leadership,” can be viewed in full online.
Three Washington and Lee alumnae and lawyers, two from the law school and one from the college, have been recognized for their work in the legal field of mergers and acquisitions.
Studying Arabic in Jordan and Lebanon has given Sierra Terrana '20 a new outlook on Islam and the Middle East—one that she hopes to parlay into a legal career.
BodyVox comes to Lexington for a one-night performance at the Keller Theatre at 7:30 p.m. on Jan. 10.
 Aimee Nezhukumatathil will  give a public reading from her work on Jan. 14 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. 
The performance will take place on Jan. 24 at 7:30 p.m. in the Keller Theatre on the Washington and Lee University campus.
Three donors have recognized the role coaches play in educating and mentoring W&L students, both in the competitive arena and in the classroom.
The artist will give a public artist’s talk on Jan. 23 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall. 
Washington and Lee University’s Martin Davies, associate professor of economics, was appointed a member of the Fulbright Specialist Program for three years.
This year's observance of MLK day will comprise a variety of events, including a keynote address by the Rev. William Barber II.
Steven Jones ’69 helps his alma mater plan for the future.
W&L's Chanoyu Tea Society will host their annual Martin Luther King, Jr. tea ceremony on Jan. 21
At prestigious labs around the country, W&L students have pushed themselves and the frontiers of science in the quest to find a cure for a rare disease.
Bob Strong's piece was published on Dec. 9 in The Virginian-Pilot.
 Women in Technology workshops introduced Ruopeng Zhang '21 and Caroline Blackmon '19 to basic web development in a collaborative and fun environment. They urge other students to take advantage of the next round of workshops.
Washington and Lee's Special Collections is an educational resource fit for a queen, but this 543-year-old book really has royal connections.
Community and social support form the heart of W&L's newest theme house.
Abiza will receive a master’s degree in global affairs from Tsinghua University in China.
Deepthi Thumuluri '20 won a Virginia Academy of Sciences grant to continue her research into the relationship between diet-induced obesity, exercise and the gut microbiome.
Lewis Perkins '93, the self-described “liberal arts kid” who received the Distinguished Alumnus Award at his 25th reunion in April, nurtured his creative spirit at W&L. Now he brings that spirit to a nonprofit that encourages sustainability. 
Beth Staples reinvents W&L's Shenandoah magazine with a commitment to diverse voices and intensive collaboration.
Morgan Luttig '14, who studied vocal performance and education at W&L, has returned as visiting instructor of music while Professor Shane Lynch is on sabbatical.
Tickets may be obtained by trading a non-perishable food item to benefit Campus Kitchen at W&L.
Rebecca M. Jordan-Young, a sociomedical scientist, is the fourth speaker in the 2017-18 “Ethics of Identity” series.
Alumnae business reporters recently visited W&L to offer advice and invite students to lean in and learn.
Ben Capouya '20 interviews Victoria Kumpuris Brown '98 about her career in food policy and health at the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
Pellicciaro taught at W&L from 1966 to 1999.
 Zainab Abiza ’19 studied at Princeton and spent time in Rabat, Morocco, with a Davis Projects for Peace grant. This semester, she's working to expand her Davis project.
The historic institutions will temporarily exchange iconic portraits of George Washington, which will go on public view in mid-December.
The concert is free and open to the public, and no tickets are required.
Ron Ginder '75 isn't one of Santa's elves; he's a thoughtful alumnus who makes 800 wooden toys each year for Rockbridge-area children. 
Max Adler ’04, editorial director at Golf Digest magazine, used golf and art to facilitate the release of a wrongfully convicted man.
Whether he's working with the Williams Investment Society or playing jazz guitar, Joe Wen '19 makes the most of his W&L experience.
The event is free and open to the public.
W&L Anthropology Professor Alison Bell discusses grave sites on "With Good Reason Radio."
This production is open to the public, but tickets are required. 
The event is free and open to the public, and books will be available for sale following the reading.
The Benjamin Borden Grant, the original grant for the land on which W&L now sits, turns 279 this month. It has been conserved and is stored in W&L's Special Collections.
Straske is a psychology major and dance minor and has been a member of Professor Megan Fulcher’s developmental psychology research lab since the winter of her freshman year.
The talk is free and open to the public, and refreshments will be provided.
Joel Bernstein ’57 brings his passion for Native American art to W&L with a groundbreaking new exhibition.
The Antioch Chamber is one of the most highly regarded chamber choral groups in the United States. 
The show will be on view Nov. 5 – Dec. 7.
Both events are free and open to the public; no tickets are required.
Mathematics professor Elizabeth Denne helped design one of the Fleet Museum's most popular exhibits yet.
Dannick Kenon '19, who plans to attend law school and devote his career to positive social change, has co-founded a new student publication at W&L called The Vigil.
The event will focus on how data is shaping sports, entertainment, and healthcare.
The talk is free and open to the public and the discussion will also be streamed live.
Sarah Helms '15 shares her documentary on the beauty and hardships of rural Nepal at the 14th National Symposium of Theater and Performance Arts in Academe.
As part of an art class, W&L students built the university’s first earth oven, which will be a permanent fixture in the Campus Garden.
The discussion will take place Nov. 9. at 5:30 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater.
After spending the summer teaching and exploring in Costa Rica, Taylor Casey '20 can't wait to return.
The talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled "Fame and Fortune in the Age of Austen."
The talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Climate Change: Local Agriculture and Rainforest Solutions – A 7 Point Plan." 
Washington Term, study abroad opportunities and internships—including one with the Philadelphia Eagles—have helped to shape Jason Renner's plans for the future.
Tombarge’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Championing the Lead Casket: Library Leadership in the 21st Century.”
Friends and classmates of Jeanne de Saussure Smith ’08 have dedicated an E. E. Cummings painting to W&L in her memory.
This free family program is geared for ages 7-11; children must be accompanied by an adult.
The house's new Bike Shop offers free and low-cost rentals, lessons on bike maintenance, and opportunities for exploring the outdoors on two wheels.
This year’s event focuses on Exploring Careers and Issues in Social Innovation and Responsible Leadership.
Vogel's talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “The Art of Tolerance.”
In his talk, which is free and open to the public, Barstow will discuss his coverage of the Trump administration and other projects.
Megan Engeland '19 spent her summer in a research laboratory in the psychology department at the University of Sydney in Australia.
James Ricks '21 interviews Dr. Jonathan Wortham '04 about his work with the Centers for Disease Control.
The group consists of current W&L faculty members Jaime McArdle, violinist, Julia Goudimova, cellist and Timothy Gaylard, pianist. 
The event is free and open to the public and tickets are free, but required.
Staff and students in the costume shop at Lenfest Center have been hard at work creating fabulous costumes for this upcoming W&L production.
 The show runs Oct. 25-27 at 7:30 p.m., and Oct. 28 at 2 p.m. in Keller Theatre on the W&L campus.
The reading will be Oct. 18 at 8:15 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. 
In response to student demand, Washington and Lee University has added three new interdisciplinary minors to enrich its curriculum.
In their discussion, the duo will address "Transatlantic relations between Poland and the United States."
The title of Foeman's lecture is "DNA and Identity: Changing the Conversation About Who We Are."
Alexander explains why we should expect to see more rule-breaking in Congress from now on.
Molly Mann '20 combined fitness and service learning during her Shepherd summer internship at Back on My Feet in Washington, D.C.
Payne joined the W&L Board of Trustees on October 5.
Whether she's leading the Student Association for Black Unity, acting in a play or volunteering in the community as a Bonner Scholar, Sasha Edwards '20 is ever mindful that education can happen anywhere.
Caroline Caruso '21 loved Costa Rica so much that she wants to open a medical practice there after graduate school. 
Daniel Rhoades '19 spent the summer immersed in the language and culture of Costa Rica.
The panel, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Kavanaugh, SCOTUS Confirmation Hearings, and #whyididntreport.”
Oring visited W&L in conjunction with her Staniar Gallery exhibit, "Writer's Block."
O’Neil’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled, “How Big Data Promotes Inequality and Threatens Democracy.” 
Language and culture courses at W&L prepared Marissa Miller '21 for a fun, educational trip to Nicoya, where she met the vice president of Costa Rica (left, center).
W&L History Professor Sarah Horowitz addresses "the upper-class claim to a right to rule — and misrule" in the Washington Post.
Jobarteh is the first female virtuoso player of the kora, a 21-string African harp. 
 The show will be on display Oct. 5 – Nov. 1.
Lunch will be served, and the event is free and open to the public; however, RSVP is required by Oct. 22 to oconnells@wlu.edu.
This exhibit, which is free and open to the public, focuses on the work of two contemporary Native American potters from the Southwest, Lorraine Gala Lewis and LaDonna Victoriano. 
Her latest novel, "The Great Believers," was a finalist for the National Book Award in fiction and was one of three finalists for the Pulitzer Prize in fiction.
Virginia McGhee ’19 spent the summer at Stanford University building polymers in Bob Waymouth ’82’s chemistry lab.
The grant will help fund a multidisciplinary team from three institutions, including W&L, that will investigate how variation in adhesive-protein components of spider silk relate to differences in the glue’s material properties.
Anne Rodgers '20 completed a 2018 summer internship with Asylee Women Enterprise (AWE) through the Shepherd Program. These are her reflections.
David Cox, professor of history at Southern Virginia University, will give Lee Chapel’s fall lecture on Oct. 8 at 12:15 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
Sharp taught at W&L from 1983-1991.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Midha Ahmad '21 and Sawera Khan '21 to spend the summer in Pakistan, where they compared alternative medicine to traditional treatment.
Blue Ridge Autism and Achievement Center’s Lexington branch recently held a grand opening celebration for a nature trail built by Washington and Lee University engineering students through a community partnership.
In the article Strong argues that "Now, more than ever, we need to take George Washington’s warnings to heart."
Balen Essak '20 interviews Maisie Osteen '14L about her experiences with the Shepherd Program and as an assistant public defender.
In his talk, which is free and open to the public, Mounk will discuss the rise of populism around the world.
The exhibition, “The Mock Convention Through the Years,” is on display on the first floor of Leyburn Library between Sept. 15-29.
Jesse Evans '20 spent his summer ensuring that this year's summit, which took place Sept. 21-22, would be a success. 
Join members of the W&L choral program for a Parents and Family Weekend choral concert on Sept. 28, at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
The panel discussion, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Who Is America?! A Response to Michael Anton’s Constitution Day Lecture.”
A Washington and Lee University faculty recital will present “From the Salon to the Dance Hall,” a concert of works by Schumann, Brahms and Astor Piazzolla.
Mark Donohue '19 spent the summer working as a software engineering intern at a company called AGCO, located in southern Bavaria.
As a senior ecologist with Trihydro Corp., Jana Heisler White '98 works on environmental protection and remediation.
This elegant bowl, which is part of W&L's Reeves Collection, can be traced back to the Opium War of 1839-1842.
Appiah will speak on “The Ethics of Identity: The Injuries of Class.” 
Erin An '19 has spent time this summer researching immunotherapy treatments for pediatric cancer at the University of Virginia.
Evans will discuss the history behind several fraudulent copies of Lansdowne-style George Washington portraits that were produced based on the original. 
Strickler will give a talk on Wednesday, Sept. 19, at 6 p.m. in the Stackhouse Theater in Elrod Commons.
A panel discussion and reception for "The Unfreedom of Expression: Artworks from the Augusta Correctional Center" will take place Sept. 13, but the exhibit will remain on display through Sept. 30.
After taking a course at Augusta Correctional Center, two W&L juniors helped to organize an exhibition at the university featuring artwork by artists who are incarcerated. The exhibit is entitled “Unfreedom of Expression.” 
Professors Michelle Brock, Sarah Horowitz and Molly Michelmore discuss the message and weight behind Confederate monuments on college campuses
In the op-ed, Professor Kevin Finch argues that Virginians should end the debate about debates.
Ed Spencer ’53, who has made plans to support a scholarship fund at W&L, is still a cornerstone of the university 17 years after his retirement.
The Professor Sidney M.B. Coulling ’46 Scholarship Endowment.
Working in South Africa gave Will Hardage '20 a chance to combine his economics major and his poverty studies minor.
Anton's talk about constitutional self-government and the Trump presidency will be held in Northen Auditorium on Sept. 18 at 5 p.m. 
The show will be on view Sept. 1-30. Oring will give a public artist’s talk on Sept. 26 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
Members of Washington and Lee's newest class arrive on campus and talk about why they chose W&L.
Charles Philip Blackledge ’38 gifted an important and fascinating collection of Roman coins to Washington and Lee Special Collections.
Professor Kevin Finch, who just released a new documentary, loves that W&L faculty have “this wonderful combination of academic credentials and practical experience.”
Benefiel explains how she has spent more than a decade studying what the people of Pompei and Herculaneum wrote on their walls.
W&L Campus Kitchen summer interns practice leadership development through community service. 
DeLaney’s talk is titled “W&L History: Traditions, Transformations and the Consequences of Change."
Newbolt taught at W&L from 1962 to 2000.
Catherine Savoca ’19 explored the real estate development industry this summer as a sales and marketing intern in Lisbon, Portugal.
Dr. Ling-ting Chiu, a Fulbright Scholar and assistant professor of history at Soochow University in Taiwan, spent the summer at Washington and Lee studying the works of former W&L professor and artist Professor I-Hsiung Ju.
The Critical Language Scholarship Program has allowed Riley Ries '19 to strengthen his Russian and learn more about politics and culture in Kyrgyzstan.
Take a peek behind the Lenfest curtain for 2018-19.
While digging at the Athenian Agora Excavation in Greece this summer, Allison Schuster '19 indulged her passion for archaeology and classics.
The award recognizes a lawyer under the age of 36 who has demonstrated an overwhelming commitment to public service, service to the bar and exceptional leadership.
The conference brings more than 65 students to Lexington from Aug. 12-17 and includes two public events.
Gonz Ferrero ’04 and Lenny Enkhbold ’17 blend their shared concern for the environment with a dash of business savvy to promote eco-friendly outdoor wear. 
Yoko Koyama '19 put her W&L learning to work this summer at National Instruments Japan.
The Darrold and Kay Cannan Associate Term Professor of Business Administration studies what she calls “the intersection of business and the natural environment.” She arrived at that spot after studying engineering, management, business — and philosophy.
Bob Chandler ’92 charts his own course as co-owner of omnichannel retailer Tactics.
Jackson Ellis '19 is working with a German consulting agency to help international student-athletes navigate the college application process.
W&L students Graham Novak '19 and Mourad Berrached '20 won a $15,000 prize at the 2018 Schulze Entrepreneurship Challenge. 
This summer, Davis Straske '19 is researching children's play in psychology professor Megan Fulcher's Gender Development Lab. 
Jeffrey Rahl, professor of geology at Washington and Lee University, has received a grant from the National Science Foundation. 
Xinxian Wang '21 was able to marry two interests in an internship with The Visual Arts Center in Richmond.
A new book by Harvey Markowitz, associate professor of anthropology, examines Native Americans and Catholic missionaries. 
Mark Rush, Waxberg Professor of Politics and Law at W&L, has recently discussed constitutional amendments, 3D-printed guns and electoral maps.
The $7,000 Virginia Humanities grant will support an upcoming exhibit in Staniar Gallery.
As a Presidential Leadership Scholar, Dana Bolden '89 discussed effective leadership styles with Presidents Bush and Clinton.
Moataz Khalifa discusses his new job as Leyburn Library's director of data education.
The scholarship will be the first awarded in the 2018-19 academic year.
Attending the Princeton Environmental Ideathon was a natural progression for Julianna Keeling '19, who started a sustainable packaging company when she was still in high school. 
Tolu Olubunmi ’02 speaks up for immigrants and refugees.
Dr. Daniel “Trey” Lee ’98 leads groundbreaking research and clinical trials of immunotherapy treatments to fight pediatric cancers.
The assistant professor of Spanish, who devotes time both inside and outside the classroom to writing and translating poetry, recently compiled a book of poems written by incarcerated undocumented teens.
Washington and Lee students utilize their summers through research, volunteer work and internship opportunities, both on campus and across the globe.
Ali Greenberg ’13 has opened a flexible workspace and social club in Richmond that emphasizes community for women and gender minorities.
Horowitz is an associate professor of history at Washington and Lee.
Strong is the William Lyne Wilson Professor in Political Economy at Washington and Lee.
Washington and Lee students partnered with Eagle’s Nest Clubhouse members to create a 32-foot community mural around the theme of recovery.
The A. Paul Knight Internship Program in Conservation, named in memory of a late Washington and Lee student, turns 30 this year. It has provided internships to 132 students and is still going strong.
Elmes taught at Washington and Lee University for 40 years until his retirement in 2007.
The summit will take place Friday and Saturday, September 21-22, 2018. Alumni registration is now open.
The professor of psychology emeritus died June 4.
Professor David Harbor and his Spring Term class chased particles of sand from the Blue Ridge Mountains to the Barrier Islands and the high plains of Utah.
Youngman succeeds Marcia France, who becomes dean of undergraduate studies at Duke Kunshan University in China.
Professor Ricardo Wilson's Spring Term class spent 10 days writing short fiction at Skylark Nature Preserve and Lodge in Raphine.
She is one of eight applicants to receive a $33,000 grant.
Evan Kueffner ’18 remains mindful of the friends, professors, coaches, staff and community members who opened doors to multiple opportunities for him.
Donald Gaylord's Spring Term class introduced students to archaeological lab methods through hands-on experience, readings and field trips. 
Doan Bui ’21 and Hashim Syed ’19 have won Gilman Scholarships to study abroad.
Diplomas have been handed out and caps have been tossed. In this video, members of the Class of 2018 discuss what they'll miss most about W&L.
In his Commencement address, president Will Dudley encouraged the Class of 2018 to take the habits they have learned at W&L "and change the world, one small encounter at a time.”
The Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE) research fellowship will allow her to conduct research at the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute for Chemical Defense.
Pinho’s award is part of ODK’s 2018 General Russell E. Dougherty National Leader of the Year competition. 
W&L celebrates its 231st undergraduate commencement Thursday, May 25. LIVESTREAM: 10 a.m.
With the support of teammates, professors and friends, Nicholas George '18 was able to balance two majors and a spot on the basketball team.
W&L will recognize the outstanding contributions of professors Marjorie Agosín and Harlan Beckley at its 231st commencement.
More than any other experience at W&L, the Outing Club has taught Bowen Spottswood '18 about living life joyfully.
The performance is free and open to the public.
The performance is free and open to the public, and no tickets are required.
Truth Iyiewuare '18 looks back at his growth as a member—and then president—of the Student Association for Black Unity at W&L.  
The performance is free and open to the public, and no tickets are required.
Elizabeth McDonald heads to Japan, Emily Austin to Indonesia and Riley Ries to Kyrgyzstan.
Boldt’s lecture is titled "Conversing a Great Deal with Your Picture: Portraiture and Society in Early Virginia.” 
Wolfe, one of W&L's most accomplished alumni, will be remembered for his talent, wit and generosity. 
Ellen Kanzinger '18 provides a snapshot of the many opportunities she had to hone her photography skills at Washington and Lee.
The NSF only funds about 11,000 of the 40,000 proposals it receives annually for research, education and training projects. 
Jenefer Davies, associate professor of dance and theater, will be among approximately 25 fellows focusing on their own creative projects at the working retreat.
Senior Stephanie Williams '18 says W&L's First-Generation Low-Income Partnership (FLIP) gave her support to overcome obstacles and mentor other low-income students.
W&L’s University Collections of Art and History partnered with Professor Eric Moffa’s teacher education class to create a fun lesson plan for local middle school students. 
The event allows students to present coursework and research conducted over the duration of the term.
Kathelen and Daniel Amos made the gift in memory of her son, John Kyle Spencer, a 2013 graduate of W&L. Professor Robert Humston (pictured) will be the new director.
Journalism professor Aly Colón weighs in on Fox News support of Hannity.
Emily Perszyk ’18 reflects on what W&L has to offer in the classroom and on the court — and how it led to her interest in the study of taste, smell and flavor.
Matthew Rickert '18 completed the daunting task of updating the "Outing Club Guidebook."
As she prepares to work for the Equality of Opportunity Project, Amanda Wahlers '18 is grateful for the education, opportunities and research experience she has had in Lexington.
The spring issue announces the retirement of R.T. Smith and the hiring of new editor Beth Staples.
Bell will discuss her second book, “Fighting King Coal: The Challenges to Micromobilization in Central Appalachia.”
DeVogt taught at W&L from 1962 to 2000.
The W&L Office of Sustainability will hold the sale May 4 and May 11.
Shapley Davis '18 produced and premiered his own short film, and he hopes to continue making films as he heads off to USC's film school after graduation.
Myers, associate professor of history, is one of a select group of faculty members nationwide chosen by the CIC and Gilder Lehrman Institute of American History.
Carson Bryant '18 has been awarded a Fulbright grant for an English Teaching Assistantship in Germany.
ODK inducted four honorary and seven student initiates
Daniel Rhoades '19 joined a group that traveled to Monterrey, Mexico over Washington Break to continue a STEM program for elementary school students.
In addition, stories by two students were chosen as finalists in the SPJ Mark of Excellence national competition.
The title of Radulescu’s talk is: “Dream in a Suitcase: How Literature Saves/Changes Lives.” 
 Jared Shely '18 will use the grant to continue his work teaching English to students in Latin America.
Edwin Castellanos '20 created a system that allows students to save money by borrowing donated textbooks.
His talk is sponsored by the Glasgow Endowment Committee and the Provost Lecture Fund.
This reading is sponsored by the Glasgow Endowment and is free and open to the public.
Hannah Falchuk '18 hopes to improve her cultural understanding and language proficiency in the country.
More than 500 ancient graffiti are now available online through the project website.
Reese and two friends brought the First-Generation Low-Income Partnership to W&L, where it provides resources and a voice for students.
Professor Bill Patch publishes book on the Labor Movement’s political influence on German democracy.
Spring Term allows W&L students to focus intensely on one topic for four weeks, or to create an experience that is unique to their educational path.
The title of Bello’s talk is: “A Bug-eyed View of Environmental History.”
The talk, titled “Storytelling in the Digital Age," is free and open to the public.
A reception and book sale will follow the reading, which is free and open to the public.
In total, 89 members of the W&L community ran the race.
She will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton followed by a service project in Morocco.
Swasy's piece was published in Splinter News.
Mugo will attend the Public Policy and International Affairs Junior Summer Institute at the Heinz College at Carnegie Mellon.
Tom Wolfe '51 will be in attendance.
On April 15, the University Singers will give a public performance in Richmond with world-renowned composer Ēriks Ešenvalds. 
As a first-year student at W&L, Jane Chiavelli '18 had no idea that she would face a huge challenge — and come out of it with strong leadership skills.
Lena Hill, senior associate to the president, interim chief diversity officer, and associate vice president at the University of Iowa, has been named dean of the College at Washington and Lee University.
The work of Patrick Hinely '73 is currently on exhibit at Nelson Gallery, which is located on Washington Street in Lexington.
After completing the academic year at W&L, he will begin his new role on July 1.
From Lexington to London, Faith E. Pinho '18 has had a vast array of experiences.
The show will be on display April 23 – May 24. 
Che Malambo comes to the Keller stage for a one-night performance on April 26.
In a recent visit to campus, Alisha Laventure ’09, a television news anchor in Dallas, told journalism students about how a national story became personal. 
Coralie Chu '18 has always been a performer, but W&L helped her discover confidence both on and off the stage.
One psychology class led Kelsey Jervis '18 to a long-term research project, a degree, and a spot on the Institutional Review Board.
Audience members will hear a wide range of genres and original compositions by Denny Euprasert.
The ensemble consists of students, staff and alumni.
The concert will feature Concerto-Aria Competition Winner Lisa Roth ’19 on piano.
Smith has edited Shenandoah since 1995 and received a 2008 Virginia Governor’s Arts Award for publishing excellence. 
Bri Shaw has spent her college career studying how humans work. Now, the senior has some ideas about how the humans at W&L could work better together.
Joseph Guse, John C. Winfrey Associate Term Professor of Economics, will give a talk in honor of his professorship on Tues., April 3 at 5:00 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. 
Washington Break gave students a chance for learning and personal development, as well as all-out fun.
The event celebrated many individual and student accomplishments.
The grant will help train faculty and community partners to implement new partnerships and courses.
The Phi Beta Kappa chapter at W&L welcomed 41 members of the junior and senior classes and two graduates from the Class of 2017.
“The Mountaintop” comes to the Keller stage for a one-night performance.
After Tucker Hall was restored, University Collections of Art & History worked to find the perfect art to adorn its walls — including four bas-relief sculptures that hung on campus more than 100 years ago.
At this small-town university, Nora Devlin '19 has been exposed to viewpoints from all over the globe.
Laventure will speak on the ethical journalist’s role in the modern media age.
Her talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “An Untold Story of Black Intellectuals and Egyptology.”
The title of his talk is “The Hamlet Fire and the Deadly Costs of Cheap.”
The weekend’s full schedule is available online. The colloquium is sponsored by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation.
 The title of their talk is “How We'll End Gerrymandering and Fairly Represent All Women and Men?" 
Bob Chandler ’92 charted his own course as entrepreneur co-owner of omni-channel retailer Tactics
Peyton Powers '18 says studying poverty has helped him understand that "humans cannot be divorced from the dignity that is concomitant to life."
Her talk is titled "Does it Make Sense to Blame Corporations?" 
Hermione Wang '18 has spent so much time in Lenfest that people jokingly ask her if she lives there. Her job? Making sure that the show always goes on.
Journalism professor Aly Colón weighs in on Sam Nunberg interviews.
“The Goddess Diaries” is an ongoing theatrical production featuring true-life stories of women.
Gay’s poetry often explores questions of race, as well as his symbiotic passions for gardening and community activism.
The title of Guelzo’s talk is “Did Robert E. Lee Commit Treason?”
Her poem "Nasty Woman" and performance were the inspiration for a student-created dance.
Staniar Gallery showcases work by the Art Department’s graduating studio majors.
His talk is titled “A Heartful Way of Living with Mindfulness, Compassion and Responsibility.” 
Beck is the 22nd General to receive the distinction over the last 15 years.
Bell is an old-time musician and square dance caller, as well as a poet.
Taylor is the author of two collections of poetry and a chapbook.
Roomful of Teeth is a Grammy-winning vocal project dedicated to reimagining the expressive potential of the human voice.
Wodak will speak on “Fake News and Echo Chambers.”
Robert Humston's Aquatic Ecology class collected ecological data about the Maury River in preparation for the removal of Jordan's Point Dam.
The concert will include works from a wide range of 20th-century composers influenced by the blues, jazz and Broadway.
The concert is free and open to the public, and no tickets are required.
Rouhi’s talk is titled “A Radical Reassessment of Accepted Wisdom on Miguel de Cervantes' Fiction on Islam.”
The title of his talk is “Common Sense in Uncommon Times: Lessons for the Digital and Physical Worlds.”
The program helps American students secure three-month long business internships in Germany.
Women in Technology and Science gives girls from local middle and elementary schools an opportunity to perform science experiments in all disciplines during the academic year.
Professor Jenefer Davies talks about her new book on aerial dance and the physical and artistic challenges of working against gravity.
This marks the third time since 2006 that the orchestra, previously known as Chamber Orchestra Kremlin, has performed at W&L.
The talk is titled “Poverty, Inequality and Public Policies: Reflections on the End of the Safety Net As We Know It.” 
Byron Petty, Shuko Watanabe and William McCorkle will perform French, German and Italian works from the baroque.
The title of her talk is “Epistemic Equality as a Condition of Well-Functioning Blame.”
Washington and Lee's Special Collections contains a rare volume of poetry by Wheatley, the first published African-American poet. 
Majo Bustamante '18 was a marketing and communications intern for NASA Automotriz, the company that owns the rights to sell Ford and Volkswagen in San Jose, Costa Rica.
The interactive exhibit will be on display in Staniar Gallery through March 17.
Kat Oakley '19 has spent a lot of time contemplating the idea of "place" - both in Lexington and across the world. 
Jenefer Davies will talk about her recent book, “Aerial Dance: A Guide to Dance with Rope and Harness.”
The British author will deliver the lecture, titled “The Word-Hoard: A Counter-Desecration Phrasebook for The Anthropocene.”
The title of his talk is "A Hesitant Intimacy: Medicine’s Response to the Unchosen Vulnerability of the Sick and Suffering.”
Sloan Evans ’99 and Rhett McCraw ’07 credit their liberal arts education with helping them build a strong foundation for their careers.
Dr. Jeffrey Lacker, former CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, will give the H. Parker Willis Lecture in Political Economy.
There will be three seatings on Mar. 3 at 1 p.m., 1:30 p.m. and 2 p.m. and tickets are free.
The program will feature a variety of works from Centuries of Psalms to modern music to traditional American folk songs.
Harleigh Bean ’18 studied in Paris, spent a summer at one of Middlebury's competitive language schools and attended the Public Policy and International Affairs Junior Summer Institute at Princeton University.
W&L welcomed two new members to its Board of Trustees Feb. 9.
A team of Washington and Lee engineering majors is designing and building a walking trail for children served by Blue Ridge Autism and Achievement Center’s Lexington location. 
Flower’s talk is titled “The Dancing Lares and the Serpent in the Garden: Roman Local and Household Religion.”
Performances will run March 1-6.
The three authors of “We Are Charleston” will talk on Feb. 15 at 6:00 p.m. in Stackhouse Theatre, Elrod Commons. It is free and open to the public.
Students play a key role in creating the visual styling for upcoming productions by the theater department. 
Graham Novak '19 may only be a junior at W&L, but he has already lined up a job — at his own company. 
Over the years, her reporting from disadvantaged communities in the United States and abroad has been awarded a Pulitzer Prize, a MacArthur Genius Grant and a National Magazine Award for Feature Writing.
Brundage’s talk is titled “A Vexing and Awkward Dilemma: The Legacy of a Confederate Landscape.”
The W&L team will compete head-to-head against other highly qualified student teams from Virginia’s 15 leading independent colleges and universities.
The university's Office of Diversity and Inclusion presents a month-long schedule of events, including film screenings, lectures and discussions. 
Washington and Lee University has selected the Advanced Research Cohort (ARC) program as its next Quality Enhancement Plan (QEP). President Will Dudley and Provost Marc Conner announced the selection at the undergraduate faculty meeting on Feb. 5.
The vase, which was made in the city of Deruta, illustrates two main influences on European ceramic design.
Brett Strohsacker ’06, who played soccer and majored in mass communications at W&L, has worked his way to the top of the Philadelphia Eagles PR team.
Gyatso is best known for his work mixing Buddhist iconography with pop imagery.
Lex McGriff '18 has grown into a leader in W&L's Student Association for Black Unity. As she prepares for graduation, she hopes more underclassmen will become leaders like her.
“James and the Giant Peach” follows the story of James, a forgotten and lonely child, played by Arthur Love ’18.
Parks is the eighth speaker in the 2017–18 Equality and Difference series, sponsored by the W&L's Mudd Center for Ethics.
The title of Deggans’ talk is: “Building Bridges, Not Walls: Decoding Media's Confusing Coverage of Race and Culture.” 
Trio ZBR will present a program that expands the definition of virtuosity in music.
Sima Sharma ’18 used her time at W&L to explore her passion for the world and its various cultures through volunteering and study abroad.
Andrew Mah ’18 has spent his undergraduate career studying the circadian rhythms of spiders.  
The concert will feature W&L’s Ting-Ting Yen on violin and Anna Billias on piano.
Students and alumni members of the award-winning W&L Repertory Dance Company will perform in NYC the last weekend in Jan.
The historian, author and museum professional swears by the value of tramping the terrain where history happened.
Kirkland, who joined W&L in 1997, has practiced education law and employment law for 25 years.
 “The Cross-Cultural Clarinet” is a concert of contemporary works for the solo clarinet that explores the versatility of the clarinet.
Wheeler will read from her poetry chapbook, “Propagation,” while Senechal De La Roche will read from her poetry collection “Blind Flowers.”
Allen’s speech is titled: “Why Hide Anything?” She is the fifth speaker in the year-long Questioning Intimacy series.
The title of his talk is “Equality and the Fourth Amendment.”
Uma Sarwadnya '19 knew she wanted to be a doctor her whole life. What she didn't know was how many unique opportunities she would find at W&L to support her journey — including a project with ants.
The national leadership honor society will welcome four honorary and 35 student initiates.
Kelly Douma ’16 is on track to complete her doctorate in early modern German history and women’s studies by 2021.
The concert will open with Louise Héritte-Viardot’s “Piano Quartet No. 1 in A Major.”
Luce's talk, “Trump and the Crisis of Western Democracy,” is free and open the public.
Higgins will perform pieces by Henry Purcell, Franz Schubert, Gabriel Fauré, Gian Carlo Menotti and others.
Dew’s speech, titled "The Making, and Unmaking, of a Racist," will precede the ODK induction.
As public information specialist for the airport in Austin, Texas, Kaela Harmon ’05 combines data analysis with creativity for the aviation industry.
The daughter of the late Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. will give the keynote address during W&L's annual multi-day observance of King’s birthday.
Broadcast journalism opportunities have been plentiful at W&L for Ford Carson '18, but the highlight of his college career has been founding a satirical publication, The Radish.
Jordan Goldstein's Washington and Lee journey can be followed through her love of music, her adventures on the stage — and the length of her hair. 
Bass will give a public artist’s talk on Jan. 22 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
The stand-out, 10-member ensemble is praised for its confident execution of a wide range of styles. 
Charles Montgomery, urban design consultant and award-winning journalist, is the fourth speaker in the Questioning Intimacy Series.
The associate professor of classics won a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities to support the digitization of Pompeian epigraphy, along with Sara Sprenkle, associate professor of computer science.
Whether doing research on campus or traveling across the world for internships and projects, W&L students made the most of summer 2017. In the new year, we invite you to take a look back at everything they accomplished.
Monica Musgrave '18 is already double-majoring, but that didn't stop her from spending six-weeks in England studying two completely different subjects.
Suzanne Keen, dean of the College and Thomas H. Broadus Professor of English at Washington and Lee University, has been named vice president for academic affairs and dean of faculty at Hamilton College, Clinton, New York. She will begin her new role on July 1, 2018.
As a geology summer research assistant in Crete, Greece, no two days were the same for Chantal Iosso '20.
History professor Molly Michelmore discusses the evolution of tax policy in America, and how Republicans became the party of tax cuts.
Chris Gavaler discussed the paper he co-authored with professor Dan Johnson, The Genre Effect, with The Guardian.
The best place to research your thesis? Some would say the library, but for Jacqueline Moruzzi '18 that place is the Cambridge University's Medieval Studies Summer Program.
As a research assistant at the Virginia Institute of Marine Science, Rachel Steffen ’18 gathered data on the environmental thresholds of juvenile sandbar sharks.
Jackson Roberts '19 had the opportunity to intern in Quito, Ecuador, exploring local customs, becoming part of the community, and learning the ins and outs of healthcare.
W&L's Chanoyu Tea Society will host their second annual Martin Luther King, Jr. tea ceremony on Jan. 15
The Rockbridge Teacher Education Consortium has received accreditation for its teacher preparation program.
Kathryn E. Young '19 got a Reynolds Business Scholarship that allowed her to intern at her hometown newspaper, the Richmond Times-Dispatch.
Shadowing surgeons in Thailand made neuroscience major Emily Ellis '18 even more excited about her chosen career path.
The William Jefferson Clinton Scholarship will allow Spiezio to attend the American University in Dubai during Winter Term 2018.
Community Grants Committee has made 19 grants totaling $30,760 to non-profit organizations in Lexington and Rockbridge County.
As a general assignment intern at The Roanoke Times, Rachel Hicks '19 learned how to be firm with difficult sources.
For Christine Starer-Smith ’99, a love of animals led to a veterinary career and volunteer service at a remote Dakota reservation.
Marta Regn ’19 used her internship to throughly explore all aspects of a sustainable, ethical jewelry startup.
Lee Sommerfeldt '18 found a home away from home in a honky-tonk in the heart of Tokyo.
The performance will be comprised of work choreographed, designed and performed by students.
A three-month internship with New York-based artist Taryn Simon presented Sara Dotterer '18 with myriad possibilities for her future career.
Beginning with the 2018 Spring Term, Washington and Lee will provide institutional grants to meet the full cost of Spring Term domestic and international travel programs for students with financial need.
An internship at Warner Music Group in Nashville allowed Mary-Michael Teel '18 to marry her two loves: music and communications.
Jeremy Franklin has spent his life after college invested in his passion for music as the general manager of WLUR, W&L’s campus radio station.
Katrina Lewis' business reporting internship took her to the Boston Business Journal, where she covered real estate news and development.
Ethiopia Getachew '19 always had an interest in science, but working in the biochemistry lab and volunteering with local EMTs helped her future plans take shape.
Vicky Kazmierczak '18 spent the summer in Memphis, learning the ins and outs of non-profit work — and how to hope.
Working for the documentary filmmaking company Ark Media allowed Claire Hoffert '18 to exercise her research muscles and learn new skills.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Xiaoxia Yin '20 and Sesha Carrier '20 to study traditional folk singing in China.
The story featured Bell and her work studying cemeteries in the Shenandoah Valley.
The award will help to fund a trilingual translation of poetry by Mapuche-Argentine poet Liliana Ancalao.
Caroline Blackmon interned this summer with The Dunwoody Crier in Georgia.
The program will open with Dr. Shane Lynch’s setting of “Gloria.”
Over 1,200 miles of biking and hiking trails led Ralston Hartness '18 from Spain to Ireland, discovering the meaning of pilgrimage along the way.
Alex Meilech '18 spent the summer in Santiago, Chile, learning the language, exploring the culture, and caring for the people of the country.
Julia Kaczmar '19 spent a summer in New York City, learning the logistics of the latest fashions.
On the 500th anniversary of the start of the Protestant Reformation, we take a closer look at a special item in the Reeves Collection — a plate that bears the image of Martin Luther.
Professor George Bent and his team of students are working on a digital recreation of Florence that Bent describes as the “project of his career.”
Abigail Summerville '19, a business journalism major, interned on the CNBC.com breaking news desk.
W&L's annual Christmas Candlelight Service featuring the University Singers will be held Dec. 7, at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
The event is a fundraiser for the W&L Chapter of the National Honor Society of Dance Arts.
This is Brodie’s third writer’s fellowship this year.
Laura I. Gómez, founder and CEO of venture-backed startup Atipica, Inc., is the sixth speaker in the 2017-18 Equality and Difference series.
Celebrating a major milestone in the Shepherd Poverty Program.
As director of the Shepherd Program, Howard Pickett focuses on bringing different voices to the table.
Students, faculty and staff gathered to sample tantalizing treats and learn some Arabic words at this year's event.
Here’s a look back at important milestones that shaped the program through the years. Pictured: Tom '52 and Nancy Shepherd, who made the gift that funded the Shepherd Program.
Professors share the inspiration for their first-year seminars, and what they hope students will take away.
Mandy Witherspoon ’18 combined her love of art with her expertise in business at the Baltimore Museum of Art.
The program will feature traditional and contemporary works written about dreams and colors.
Emily St. John Mandel will read from her most recent book, “Station Eleven.”
Caroline Rivers test drove her Spanish—and her courage in unfamiliar environments—during a summer teaching gig in Argentina.
Quincy Springs '02 is set to open a Chick-fil-A that will also serve up a helping of civil rights history.
Brian C. Murchison, the Charles S. Rowe Professor of Law at Washington and Lee University, will be the new Roger Mudd Professor of Ethics and director of the Mudd Center for Ethics, beginning July 1, 2018. He succeeds Angela Smith, who was named the Mudd Center’s inaugural director in 2013 and is returning to her full-time faculty role as professor of philosophy.
Danielle Hughson's honors thesis will be focused on male editorial control and how it affects female writers, within a familial and patriarchal context.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed engineering students Alfred Rwagaju '18 and Kennedy Gibson-Wynn '18 to spend the summer studying hydroelectric power in Rwanda.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Yoko Koyama '19 and Maren Lundgren '18 to open a store in Cameroon that will fund transportation for local children to go to middle school in a neighboring town.
The Campus Kitchen Leadership Team at Washington and Lee University presents its annual “Turkeypalooza” from Nov. 9-16.  
The prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
Washington and Lee Spanish professor Seth Michelson has compiled a book of poems written by incarcerated undocumented teens and translated by some of his students and him.
Piotr Krzywiec will give a lecture on “Geology in Central Europe – How It All Started: The Early (XVI – XVII Cent.) Development of Earth Sciences in Central Europe."
Maggie Little, director of the Kennedy Institute of Ethics (KIE) at Georgetown University, will speak on “Research With Pregnant Women: A Moral Imperative.”
Four Martin Luther tracts housed in W&L's Special Collections were fully restored in time for the 500th anniversary of the start of the Protestant Reformation.
The show will be on view through Dec. 8.
The ensemble has two electric bass players and will offer the world debut of "Dueling Basses," along with works by Bill Monroe and more recent bluegrass bands.
Over the summer, students worked with Professor Robert Humston to examine the potential effects of smallmouth bass on native brook trout populations in the Virginia watershed.
The University Jazz Ensemble, under the direction of Denny Euprasert, will present interpretations of jazz standards and contemporary works.
Sandberg’s adaptation follows one character as he grapples with the unnerving grip Big Brother, the overpowering political party, has on Oceania.
Following the theme “Poverty, Inequality and Work Today,” the talk is titled "The Tumbleweed Society: What Happens When People Assume Job Insecurity Is Inevitable."
Join the University Wind Ensemble, conducted by Christopher Dobbins, for its fall concert, “Shipping Out.”
Eugene M. and Judith F. Kramer’s exhibit collection “A Passion for Art: The Collection of Eugene M. and Judith F. Kramer” will be on display from Nov. 6–June 30.
Based in Marseilles, France, the group sings in the ancient Occitan language, accompanied by stomping, body percussion and drumming.
Brownell, author of “Washington and Lee University, 1930-2000: Tradition and Transformation” will lecture on the history of W&L.
Steele will speak on “Reflecting Before Reacting: Why Ethics Matters.”
Each year Appalachian State honors distinguished undergraduate or graduate alumni from a department within the college.
The show will run Thursday, Oct. 26 through Sunday, Oct. 29.
As a summer counselor with the nonprofit Camp Fire Alaska, Chase Wonderlic '18 got in touch with his inner child and his adventurous spirit.
The Journalism Department will host a conversation between Pulitzer prize-winning journalist Eric Eyre and First Amendment attorney Patrick McGinley.
The Marlbrook Chamber Ensemble presents “A Classical and Romantic Afternoon,” a concert of works by Mozart and Brahms.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation sent Trang Duong '20 and Hannah Denham '20 to Vietnam, where they had enlightening interviews with both men and women about marriage in modern Vietnamese society.
Rogowski joined the W&L Board of Trustees on October 20.
The sculptor's latest exhibit runs through Dec. 8 at Davidson College’s Van Every/Smith Galleries.
Brock's piece, “No, there is no witch hunt against powerful men,” was published in The Washington Post on October 18, 2017.
Journalism professor Aly Colón shared his expertise with PolitiFact's Truth-O-Meter
This year’s event focuses on “Exploring Careers and Issues in Social Innovation and Responsible Leadership.”
Olivia Kubli '18's summer volunteer work included photographing lions, giraffes and elephants in Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe.
Vishnuvajjala’s talk is titled “Arthurian Authority: Face-to-Face With the King.”
Clay uses a comparative approach with primates to investigate the evolution of human behavior. 
With a Davis Projects for Peace grant, Angel Vela de la Garza Evia ’18 created an educational summer program for children in his hometown of Monterrey, Mexico. [With time-lapse VIDEO]
Her lecture, titled “À Propos Salvador Dalí and Marcel Duchamp,” will consider the friendship and artistic relationship between two important 20th-century artists.
W&L's Theater, Dance and Film Studies, along with the Department of Music, present the Robert O. and Elizabeth M. Bentley fall musical, “The Addams Family, A New Musical.”
Scanlon will speak on “Further Reflections on Tolerance (and Some Implications for Immigration).”
Joining the Washington and Lee University Singers are the women's choir, Cantatrici, and the Men’s Glee Club.
Anna Milewski '18 has spent time in fields, labs, carpenter shops and seminar rooms - and it was all part of one internship at the home of George Washington.
Huntley taught at Washington and Lee University for 32 years until his retirement in 1994.
W&L's Kyle Friend received a $100,000 grant from the Jeffress Trust Awards Program in Interdisciplinary Research. 
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Tiffany Ko '20 and Jiwon Kim '20 to study religion in South Korea during summer 2017.
Sutton Travis '19 gained a wide breadth of journalism experience as a summer intern at Texas Monthly magazine.
W&L's Marc Conner co-chaired a conference on Ellison at the University of Oxford.
Michelmore's piece, "Republicans have none of the ingredients necessary for tax reform," was published in The Washington Post on October 2, 2017.
Matt Lubas '18 spent the summer in Zacapa, Guatamala, working at a prosthetic clinic for the Range of Motion Project.
Jonathan Rauch of the Brookings Institution will give a lecture titled “Unpresidented: Governing in the Age of Chaos.”
Hannah Palmatary '18 spent the summer discovering the ancient ruins of Greece, as well as her own talent and passion for creative writing.
W&L presents Cajun-Creole musicians David Greely and Cedric Watson on Oct. 19.
Lundberg, along with bassist David Slack and an ensemble of Knoxville musicians, will explore the unforgettable television music of the 1970s and 1980s.
John Bovay ’07, an assistant professor in the Department of Agricultural and Resource Economics at the University of Connecticut, focuses on the economics of food and agricultural policy
Yavuz Durmaz ’20 worked with Professor Kyle Friend to probe mRNA instability.
Lorena Hernandez Barcena '19 had an eye-opening summer internship with Harlem Children’s Zone, an education nonprofit in New York.
Money Matters Week, sponsored by the First-Generation Low-Income Partnership at W&L, runs Oct. 1-6.
Woodzicka's talk is titled “Are All Jokes Created Equal? Differential Effects of Group-Based Disparagement Humor.”
Anna Billias and Julia Goudimova will present “An Exploration of the Russian Soul: Selections from the ‘Mighty Five’ Russian Composers.”
A public artist’s talk and reception will be held Oct. 18 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
Liz Todd '19 was able to extend her Spring Term Abroad and spend the summer in Brazil, where she worked for an environmental agency.
A summer at UC San Diego gave Katie Volk '18 experience working in a big research environment
Farrell will speak on “Richard Nixon and Donald Trump: Two American Presidents and the Politics of Grievance.”
The title of Noe's talk is “A Storm to Destroy My Hopes: Weather and Robert E. Lee’s Cheat Mountain Campaign.”
Faculty and students from W&L's department of music will present a recital entitled “An Eclectic Potpourri.” 
Elora Fucigna '19 completed an internship in social media and marketing for Ground Floor Farm, an urban farm in her hometown of Stuart, Florida.
Stewart’s talk will include readings from her poetry collection “Cinder.”
Greg Buppert, senior attorney for the Southern Environmental Law Center, will speak on “The Case Against the Atlantic Coast Pipeline.”
Shadowing doctors in Peru allowed Bryan D'Ostroph '19 to practice his Spanish and firm up future career plans in health care.
Futch taught at Washington and Lee University for 46 years, until his retirement in 2008.
Through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty, Tyra Barrett '18 interned at the Camden Coalition of Healthcare Providers in New Jersey.
Soon Ho Kwon '17 and Claire Meyers '18 spent the summer looking at how Corporate Social Responsibility plays a role in the bottom line.
Mary Catherine Greenleaf '19 collected and archived artifacts revolving around the Prohibition-era murder of Franklin Crosby Bearse.
Washington and Lee University inaugurated William C. Dudley as the university’s 27th president.
Laura Wang '19 interned for the Shell company in Shanghai, putting her communications skills to the test and making new friends along the way.
Washington and Lee University’s Williams School will hold its sixth annual Entrepreneurship Summit Sept. 29-30.
Tim Gaylard, professor of music at W&L, will present a faculty recital of the final Beethoven piano sonatas.
Elly Cosgrove '19 stayed busy this summer with internships at the Greater Wilmington Business Journal and WECT (Channel 6).
Swimmer, computer coder, and Speaking Tradition advocate Will McMurtry '18 chose W&L over nine other schools, in large part because of its community.
Fahrenthold’s talk, titled "Journalism in the Time of Trump,” is free and open to the public.
The prize is presented by The Missouri Review for the best short story chosen from their four issues published in the last year.
Col. Ty Seidule '84, professor and head of the history department at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, will deliver W&L's Constitution Day lecture.
Appalachian Adventure, which takes students on a four-night hike of the Appalachian Trail, is the most popular pre-orientation trip at W&L.
Zainab Abiza '19 spent the summer analyzing two Islamic State magazines in a timely project with Professor Seth Cantey.
Translating Aimé Césaire: A conversation with A. James Arnold and Clayton Eshleman will be held Sept. 19 at 5 p.m. in the CGL.
Students on the Sustainability Leadership pre-orientation trip had a chance to meet local food producers and learn about W&L's commitment to the environment.
W&L's Center for International Education presents Science Without Borders at CERN, the European Organization for Nuclear Research.
Ramadan will speak on “Equality as a Social Requirement and a Human Ideal.”
W&L joins a diverse set of institutions united in a shared goal of educating 50,000 additional high-achieving, lower-income students nationwide.
W&L will host a panel discussion on “The Liberal Arts and the Professions” as part of President Dudley's inauguration.
Through the U.Va. Field School for Public Health Research, Julie Sklar '18 was able to work with a medical anthropologist and epidemiologist in South Africa this summer.
A public artist’s talk and reception will be held on September 20 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
The grant will support digitization of Pompeian epigraphy as part of the Ancient Graffiti Project.
Klinenberg's talk, “The Sociology of Connection: From Going Solo to Modern Romance,” is open to the public.
The first lecturer will be Tariq Ramadan of Oxford University, whose talk is titled: “Equality as a Social Requirement and Human Ideal.”
Matt Kaminer '18 stepped outside his comfort zone to work on some big stories during an internship with the Charlotte Observer.
Through numerous clubs, her classwork and her peers, JoAnn Michel '18 has found a place to grow at W&L.
Danielle Allen, James Bryant Conant University Professor at Harvard University and director of Harvard’s Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics, will address W&L's 2017 Fall Convocation.
Meredith McCoy has joined Washington and Lee University as an associate dean of the college.
Daisy Norwood-Kelly '18 worked in marketing research for Paramount Pictures over the summer.
W&L's Myers discusses what ties together George Washington and Robert E. Lee.
Melina Bell discusses “2017’s Best & Worst States for Women’s Equality in a recent WalletHub article.
University Collections teamed up with the Art History and Chemistry departments at W&L to examine a tiny painting surrounded by mystery.
After spending Spring Term in Ethiopia, Jack Kaelin '19 is in Austin, Texas, helping refugees find a place to call home. 
Julia Poppenberg '19 spent the summer as a translator in Guatemala, helping doctors and patients alike and learning to "talk strong."
Leyburn Library's Author Talk Series will begin this academic year with a talk by W&L Associate Professor of History Barton Myers and Brian McKnight, a history professor at U.Va.-Wise.
The Rev. Dr. Jennifer Strawbridge ’01, associate professor in New Testament Studies at the University of Oxford a will speak on “Skulls and Scripture: Reception of the Sacred.”
Ellen Kanzinger's summer internship allowed her to work on films for the nonprofit GroundTruth Project in Boston, Massachusetts.
Anukriti Shrestha '19 has found an intersection of mathematics, computer science and research — all in the heart of Lexington.
This summer, Allison Jue '20 dove into the books to learn more about the relationship between Queen Elizabeth I and the second Earl of Essex.
As head of brand communications for Adidas, Alegra O’Hare ’94 advises young women to 'break barriers.'
A Bible in the Special Collections vault turned out to be the 1642 New Testament that belonged to France’s King Louis XIII.
W&L's Mark Rush talks to USA Today about Russia sanctions.
Twelve Class of 2021 students visited W&L for a five-week Advanced Research Cohort program that allowed them to dabble in STEM projects and establish quality relationships.
Professor Chris Dobbins and Ben Whedon ’18 are reviving a forgotten musical score for its 21st-century premiere by the W&L Orchestra.
Will Schirmer ’20 investigates the fluid dynamics of periodic water surges.
Chandler Wickers '18 has spent her summer as a researcher in Special Collections, where she has been exposed to fascinating materials and learned how professors and students can take greater advantage of the collection.
W&L and VMI will host the 2017 Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty Frueauff Closing Conference and Symposium July 30 and 31.
Ben Schaeffer '18 is working with German professor Paul Youngman on a project involving references to the railway in German literature.
This lecture is part of the Alumni College's summer program, "Camelot Reconsidered: The Presidency of John Fitzgerald Kennedy."
This lecture is part of the Alumni College's summer program, "Rembrandt and the Dutch Golden Age."
Joelle Simeu '20 is working this summer on "The Politics and Poetics of Space in the Works of Martin Luther King Jr. and Leopold Senghor," a project with Professor Mohamed Kamara.
Annie Jeckovich ’18 is studying the effects of obesity on reproduction in W&L's Fat Rat lab.
Josh Fox '19 has spent his summer conducting geology research on campus and in Crete, Greece, with Professor Jeff Rahl.
This lecture is part of the Alumni College's summer program, "The Ireland of Yeats and Joyce."
An independent-study class at W&L allowed students to put together a short animated film from start to finish in only 12 weeks, but it turned out to be much more challenging than they expected.
Students practiced stage magic, sculpted severed fingers and whipped up batches of fake blood in a Spring Term course on special effects for the theater.
Kaela Harmon ’05 makes the case for airports to by combining data analysis with creativity
Radulescu has received a Fulbright Research Teaching Fellowship to study and teach at the University of Bucharest.
Receiving a thunderous standing ovation after performing in the Stern Auditorium of Carnegie Hall in New York was “truly one of those great life events” for the University Singers, according to Director Shane Lynch.
Annie Woodford, a community college teacher in Roanoke, Virginia, is the winner of this year’s Graybeal-Gowen Poetry Prize for Virginia Writers.
Journalism professor Aly Colón talks about the spread of fake news on The Academic Minute.
W&L recognized 20 retiring members of the University's faculty and staff this spring.
Angel Vela de la Garza Evia ‘18 learned that research is two parts patience, two parts fun with lasers
President Dudley's remarks at the 2017 commencement exercises have been published in The Roanoke Times.
He is internationally recognized for his theories and pioneering research techniques exploring human memory accessibility and retrieval.
Students in Meg Griffith’s Spring Term art class created public works of art to draw attention to important causes in the community.
Elena Diller '17 and Caroline Todd '17 saw a need for more perspective in academics — so they got to work.
W&L to Host the Virginia Governor’s Foreign Language Academies June 24 - July 15.
Andre Zeromski '20 has been selected from a group of finalists for the Class of 2020 of the prestigious Kemper Scholars Program.
T.J. Tallie, assistant professor of African history, talked to Forbes about the cultural appropriation of recipes.
Rush's piece on legislative terms appeared in The Hill.
Professor Angie Smith's spring term class grapples with the question of just war theory in an age of terrorism.
Helping the Charlotte Observer figure out what, where, when and how millennials consume news.
Graduating seniors at Washington and Lee University today were given a primer in existentialism along with four pieces of advice from President William C. Dudley.
The Roanoke Times profiled graduating senior Matt Carl in today's commencement story.
W&L's undergraduate mock trial team is now ranked 16th nationally.
Jake Roberts' study abroad trip started with an earthquake, and ended with him finding a passion for public health.
Participating in Mock Trial required loads of time for Avery Field '17, but he wouldn't trade the experience and relationships for a whole case of trophies.
Stephen Mitchell '17 credits students, alumni, and W&L academics for helping him to find the right career path.
Dancer, choreographer, musician, mathematician: Elliot Emadian '17 has many roles, both on and off the stage. 
Steven Yeung '17 has been in classrooms from Lexington to Ghana to Shanghai and back — and now plans to run a classroom in Japan.
Zachary Taylor '17 and Austin Piatt '17 believe leadership, collaboration and responsibility are the keys to a successful conference.
Melina Knabe was inspired by her own bilingualism to study the effects of knowing two languages on the brain.
Amirah S. Ndam Njoya ‘17 believes leadership, travelling, service, and scholarship are all vital parts of the W&L experience.
Washington and Lee University celebrates its 230th undergraduate commencement Thursday, May 25. LIVESTREAM: 10 a.m.
Shaun Soman ’17 has found an unlikely home at Common Ground, an intentional community where he did his environmental service learning placement.
She begins her new job on July 17.
Washington and Lee University’s new natatorium is open!
Michelle Brock, assistant professor of history, talked to Motto about use of the phrase "witch hunt."
The Volume 65 winner of the $1000 James Boatwright Poetry Prize is Thomas Reiter for his poem “St. Wynfed’s Parishioner.”
JASC is a student-exchange program, initiated in 1934 by university students concerned by the breakdown of bilateral relations prior to World War II.
“Duet” is about mountain dulcimer players Jean and Bayliss Ritchie, of Viper, Kentucky, and will be on the website Poetry Daily on May 20
What can you do in four years at W&L? How about manage a radio show, start a service organization, found a club, or publish an EP? Austin Frank ’17 has done them all.
Cory Walker ’15, who graduated from James Madison University with her master’s in computer science and digital forensics, works in cyber security with the government.
"The Battle of Minden" will be on display at W&L through the end of Fall Term 2017, when it will return on loan to Mount Vernon.
The life mask is perhaps the single most valuable item in a collection of more than 1,000 Dickey items in W&L Special Collections.
Free performances will take place at Wilson Hall at 3:30 p.m. on May 18 and 11 a.m. on May 19.
Families and people of all ages are encouraged to take part in “The Many Stories of Main Street,” an interpretive downtown Lexington walking tour.
Dashiell Dericks ’18 and Jesse Evans ’20 are selling saplings grown from Colonnade oak trees in a new business that marries Dericks' love of silviculture and his fondness for W&L.
WDBJ-7 interviewed Dana Gary '18 and Austin Frank '17 about student-run label Friday Underground Records.
Sierra Noland and Tara Cooper received Critical Language Scholarships sponsored by the U.S. Department of State.
Michael Hudson '85 (pictured) and Scott Bronstein '93 both worked on the Pulitzer-winning Panama Papers investigation, which relied on the collaboration of some 400 journalists around the world.
Alexander Rurka '17 knows the ups-and-downs (and loop-de-loops) of flying and competing in an international plane building competition
Alora Martin, who is participating in an intensive language program for Arabic in Amman, Jordan, sees studying abroad as a necessary part of a modern education.
An inheritance of Civil War letters led to Professor Roberta Senechal's book about Civil War sharpshooters.
Professor, poet and author Stephen Cushman will speak on the journals of Meriwether Lewis and William Clark.
Brett Becker '18 and the W&L Pre-Dental Club teamed up with Rockbridge Area Health Center to distribute dental supplies to more than 700 local children.
Guen splits his time between hiking the mountains of Rockbridge and traveling the world.
The Marlbrook Chamber Ensemble will play “A Love Triangle,” featuring Robert Schumann and Johannes Brahms.
Washington and Lee University Department of Music presents Jonathan Chapman Cook in a piano recital of four sonatas by Ludwig van Beethoven.
Ben Fleenor ’19, Mohini Tangri ’19 and Kenta Sayama ’19 talk about the opportunities that await them as they look forward to a year at Oxford.
Briggs will speak on “James Dickey and ‘Life’: How Poems Are Made.” 
James W. Ceaser, the Harry F. Byrd Professor of Politics at U.Va. and a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, will speak on “The First 100 Days: Reflections on the Trump Presidency.”
Tyler Grant ’12, a graduate of Washington and Lee University and the University of Virginia School of Law, is a regular editorial contributor to several national publications.
Author Lauren Groff will present the keynote address at W&L's 14th Annual Tom Wolfe Weekend Seminar.
Physics and engineering students at Washington and Lee put their creations to the test in the final week of Winter Term.
In his new book, Professor George Bent explores the cultural messages of Italian paintings from the Proto-Renaissance period.
LaPointe, who says his personal motto is "being genuine goes a long way," is a world traveler, professional debater, and Johnson Scholar.
Kukla will speak on “Patrick Henry: Champion of Liberty.”
Webster's research and teaching interests include ancient science and medicine, and ancient philosophy.
Meet Eleni Timas ‘17, a chemical engineering major who has been swept up studying tornadoes.
Washington and Lee University owns a first edition of one of the most important — and controversial — books ever written.
Professor Jeff Barnett publishes a translation of Cuban poetry.
U.S. Sen. Mark Warner will speak on Thursday, April 13 from 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater.
As director of Iowa State University's conservation camp, Jennifer Schieltz ’08 follows the lives of elk, deer, moose, bears, wolves and mountain lions.
To be eligible for Phi Eta Sigma, a student must be in the top 20 percent of the class at the end of his or her first term. 
The QEP is an exciting and important part of Washington and Lee University’s accreditation process by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.
W&L's Staniar Gallery presents a traveling exhibition that explores the impact of immigration to the U.S. through artworks made by those who are left behind and often separated from their loved ones.
The Lenfest Center for the Arts presents “Judgment at Nuremberg” by the L.A. Theatre Works (LATW), a one-night performance in the Lenfest’s Keller Theater on April 25 at 7:30 p.m.
W&L senior Harrison Westgarth has been awarded a Fulbright grant to Brazil, where he will study the “Development of an Animal Model of Direct and Congenital Zika Virus Transmission.”
W&L senior John Dannehl has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain.
Quincy Springs ’02 didn't think college was in his future — until he spent a summer at W&L.
Every once in a while someone comes along who reminds us that philanthropy is both profoundly creative and simpler than we think. For Eileen Small ’15, being a philanthropist is as simple as taking the ideas you have for how things could be better and doing something about them.
Register now for the LACOL Popup Discussion, You Are the New Gatekeeper of the News, led by W&L's Aly Colón
Whether they were doing service work in Birmingham, touring firms in NYC, or climbing an ice-encrusted mountain in New Hampshire, Washington and Lee students made the most of Washington Break.
Alecia Swasy, Donald W. Reynolds Chair in Business Journalism, writes about the journalists' use of Twitter.
W&L's Melissa Kerin talked to WMRA's Jessie Knadler about the Staniar Gallery's recent exhibit by artist and researcher Joy Lyn Davis.
Five W&L faculty members are featured in a new book from Cambridge Press about the NSA surveillance scandal that grew out of Edward Snowden’s now infamous disclosures.
Tammi M. Hellwig has been named the director of Community-Based Learning at Washington and Lee University. W&L Provost Marc Conner announced the appointment, which is effective July 1.
W&L junior Angel Vela de la Garza Evia has won a $10,000 Davis Projects for Peace grant.
Karishma Patel '18 loves finding the intersections of technology and business - while studying abroad in Madrid.
George Bent will discuss his new book, “Public Painting and Visual Culture in Early Republican Florence.” 
Ann Fisher-Wirth and Laura-Gray Street will hold a joint reading and talk on ecological approaches to poetry.
R.T. Smith, Shenandoah editor and Washington and Lee University writer in residence, has published his sixth collection of stories, “Doves in Flight.”
MK Moran's work with the LGBTQ Resource Center at Washington and Lee is impacting student perspectives.
Colonel Chris Goff, U.S. Marine liaison to the Japan Self Defense Forces, will speak on “Japan and East Asian Security Challenges.”
Marquita Robinson ’10 loves the uncertainty of life as a sitcom writer for “New Girl.”
The Phi Beta Kappa chapter at Washington and Lee University welcomed 49 members of the junior and senior classes and seven graduates from the Class of 2016 into the prestigious honor society at the Phi Beta Kappa/Society of the Cincinnati Convocation on Sunday, March 19.
A passion for asking questions has led Batsheva Honig ‘17 from America to Argentina to study women’s health in both countries.
Hannah Falchuk's passion for journalism has her reporting both in New York City and local Rockbridge.
Matthew Rickert ‘18: avid outdoorsman by day, corporate fraud analyst by night
Meet Andrew Mah ‘18, an accomplished mathematician who found an unlikely passion - spiders!
Washington and Lee will host a reception celebrating Paqui Toscano's selection as a Rhodes Scholar on Friday, March 17, from 4:30 - 5:30 p.m. in the Commons Living Room.
Meet Yolanda Yang ‘18, who has traveled to China and back to discover the true purpose of cinematic censorship. Yang and study partner Savannah Kimble ’18 conducted research on this project in 2017 under the auspices of a grant from the Endeavor Foundation.
Highlights include live performances, including “Exile is My Home” by W&L professor Domnica Radulescu.
Robert Reich, professor of political science at Stanford University, will give a lecture on “Repugnant to the Whole Idea of a Democratic Society?: On the Role of Philanthropic Foundations.”
Twenty-nine composers from around the Southeast will spend two days in Lexington presenting their original works.
New York Times bestselling author Jeff Shaara will speak on “A Storyteller’s View of the First World War.”
Six Washington and Lee University studio art students will present their senior thesis work in an exhibition at Staniar Gallery that runs from March 27-April 7.
Generalprobe, the German student language drama group at Washington and Lee University, will perform two one-act comedies written and directed by the students.
In February and early March, performances, panel discussions, film screenings and lectures put the focus on black history and the black experience at Washington and Lee.
Dana Gary, whose first EP is recorded, produced and publicized by a student-run record label, will present songs at SSA.
Meet Laura Beth Lavette ‘17, a senior with a passion for introducing first-year students to W&L.
Orthopaedic surgeon Michael Magoline '89 will speak on “From Lexington to Afghanistan, My Tribute to Washington and Lee.”
The Washington and Lee University’s Department of Theatre, Dance and Film Studies presents the W&L Repertory Dance Company’s winter concert in a program of multifaceted dance works created by nationally renowned choreographers.
Alecia Swasy, the Reynolds Professor of Business Journalism at W&L, will discuss her book, “How Journalists Use Twitter: The Changing Landscape of U.S. Newsrooms.” 
The Jazz Ambassadors, the United States Army’s Official Touring Big Band, will be at W&L for a one-night engagement on March 21 at 7:30 p.m. in the Keller Theater.
A new exhibit, “Mementos of the Great War: Toby Jugs Commemorating Allied Leaders of World War I,” is open to the public in the Watson Pavilion at Washington and Lee University through December 2017.
Jeffrey Rosen, president and CEO of the National Constitution Center and professor of law at George Washington University will speak on “The Curse of Bigness: What Would Brandeis Say about Privacy in the Age of Google and Facebook.” 
The Phi Beta Kappa chapter at W&L will induct new members into the prestigious honor society at the Phi Beta Kappa/Society of the Cincinnati Convocation on Sunday, March 19.
The group was chosen to perform, along with only three other choirs from around the nation, after a highly competitive selection process.
Marlon West, head of effects animation at Walt Disney Animation Studios, will give the keynote address for the 2017 SSA conference, to be held March 16 and 17.
UVa professor Shankar Nair will be speaking on "An Iranian Philosopher Roams India: Making Sense of an Early Modern Muslim Interpretation of Hinduism."
The work of four Washington and Lee University photography students was accepted in the 2017 Southwest Virginia Juried Student Photography Competition at the Radford University Art Museum Downtown. 
An opinion piece by Chris Gavaler, assistant professor of English, appeared in the Mar. 5 2017 edition of the Roanoke Times.
For World Thinking Day, W&L's foreign language teaching assistants led local Girl Scouts in a variety of internationally themed activities.
Meet Ashley Faulkner ‘18, a University Ambassador with a passion for showing others why she loves W&L
Meet Shlomo Honig ‘18, whose day consists of analyzing rocks, protecting the environment, and ultimate frisbee
MacArthur Fellow Jeff Weeks, a geometer, cosmologist and educator, will speak about “The Shape of Space.”
Three nationally acclaimed journalists will participate in a discussion of the challenges facing the news media in covering the Trump administration.
Roy Matthews's shaky start at W&L did not hint at his future career as a successful university professor. During a recent telephone conversation from his home in Washington, D.C. he described his journey from struggling during his first term at W&L to being a history scholar and author. He also talked about his decision to support the W&L History Department, where his journey began, through his IRA.
Sahar Akhtar, assistant professor in the department of philosophy at U.Va., will speak on "Why Religious and Racial Immigration Bans are Wrong."
Jill Geisler, the Bill Plante Chair in Leadership and Media Integrity at Loyola University Chicago, will deliver the keynote address at Washington and Lee University’s 63rd Institute in Media Ethics.
Washington and Lee University is one of the newest members of the Liberal Arts Consortium for Online Learning.
This associate dean of the college is interested in green chemistry, playing the flute and teaching her Science of Cooking class in Italy
Pianists Shuko Watanabe and Byron Petty all perform on March 5.
The two-day event will feature a film screening of "Bridge of Spies" and a panel discussion with lawyers who have represented notorious clients.
This seemingly ordinary subscription list from 1776, which has long been a part of W&L Special Collections, has a fascinating connection with American independence.
W&L will host a Public Interest Law Careers Panel on Feb. 28 at 7:15 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater.
Enjoy a home performance by the Washington and Lee University Singers as they return from their 2016 tour of the South.
Registration is now open through the W&L website for students and alumni to reserve a spot for the sixth annual AdLib Conference Mar. 2-3. 
On Wednesday, Feb. 15 at 6 p.m. Jonathan Holloway’s recent ODK Lecture on “The Price of Recognition: Race and the Making of the Modern University” will be shown in Stackhouse Theater, followed by a panel discussion.
Deborah G. Johnson, the Olsson Professor of Applied Ethics and Emeritus, Science, Technology and Society Program at U.Va., will discuss the question, “Does Engineering Need a Code of Ethics?”
Filiz Garip, professor of sociology at Cornell University, will speak about her book “On the Move: Changing Mechanisms of Mexico-U.S. Migration.”
Kathleen Lynch, associate professor of classics at the University of Cincinnati, will give the 2016-2017 Hoyt Lecture at Washington and Lee University on March 7 at 7 p.m. in Staniar Art Gallery, Wilson Hall.
Quincy Springs IV '02  will give the keynote address at Washington and Lee's Black Alumni Reunion.
The CEO of a top sales-training company says everyone is in sales.
Washington and Lee University has named Marc C. Conner as provost. Conner, the Jo M. and James M. Ballengee Professor of English, has been serving as W&L’s interim provost since January 2016.
Scott Boyd, a neurosurgeon who graduated from W&L in 1986 with a B.S. in biology, was sworn in as a trustee of his alma mater on Feb. 10, in Lexington.
R.T. Smith, editor of Shenandoah and the Writer in Residence at W&L, will have his poem, “Maricon,” featured in The Best American Poetry 2017.
Alvin Carl Hollingsworth was a leading African-American artist whose works can be seen in W&L's Leyburn Library.
Meet Lenny Enkhbold '17, a computer scientist with a passion for the outdoors, who isn't afraid to have a good laugh.
The Antioch Chamber Ensemble will give a performance at Washington and Lee University on Feb. 11 at 8 p.m. in the Concert Hall of Wilson Hall.
Shenandoah: The Washington and Lee University Review seeks submissions from Virginia poets for the 2017 Graybeal-Gowen Prize. 
All students are invited to stop by the Fellowships and Opportunities Fair on Monday, February 13, from 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. on the main floor of Leyburn Library to get information on fellowships and a wide variety of other opportunities.
A multi-disciplinary Community-Based Research project gave Washington and Lee University students a chance to help local organizations take a closer look at access to affordable healthy food.
W&L's Colón's piece, "You are the new gatekeeper of the news," was recently published on The Conversation.
Professors Marc Conner and Lucas Morel will present the John Chavis Lecture in African-American Studies, titled "The New Territory: Ralph Ellison and the 21st Century."
Meet Tessa Horan '18, a pre-med, self-proclaimed "tree-hugger" with big plans for making the university - and the world - a little greener.
Ginsburg’s visit was a year in the making and came 20 years after she penned the majority opinion in United States v. Virginia, the landmark case that struck down VMI’s male-only admissions policy.
Meet Harry Lustig ‘17, a scholar-explorer who’s hiked everywhere from the Blue Ridge to Alaska.
Marketing maven Tina Tison ’95 is inspired by tradition and innovation.
Meet Matt Lubas '18, an engineer who spends his spare time building communities.
Fulbright Scholar and foreign language TA Imad Baazizi gave W&L students an introduction to Moroccan culture, including traditional Moroccan tea.
In the first installment of this new series, Tom Camden offers the story of a Sumerian clay tablet that is the oldest recorded document in W&L's Special Collections.
Marina Silva, Brazilian environmentalist and politician, will give the keynote at the Brazilian Economy in the 21st Century colloquium.
Professor Tim Diette testified before the Canadian House of Commons’ Standing Committee on Human Resources, Skills and Social Development and the Status of Persons with Disabilities.
W&L students reflect on their experiences at the Women's March.
The Washington and Lee Department of Theater, Dance, and Film Studies presents  “Dracula” on Feb. 9 and 11 at 7:30 p.m.; Feb. 10 at 10 p.m.; and Feb. 12 at 2 p.m. in the Keller Theater, Lenfest Center.
Michelle D. Brock, assistant professor of history, will discuss her first book, “Satan and the Scots: The Devil in Post-Reformation Scotland, c. 1560-1700.”
Sandra Reiter, associate professor of business administration at Washington and Lee University, will give a talk on Feb. 15 as part of W&L’s Roger Mudd Center for Ethics Markets and Morals series.
Dr. Mark Rankin, associate professor of English at James Madison University, will give a public lecture on "The Illustrations of Foxe's ‘Book of Martyrs’ and their Publishing History."
Sejal Mistry ’17, a biology major and poverty studies minor, has completed a service project that aims to improve the nutritional value of foods in the Campus Kitchen at Washington and Lee’s Backpack Program.
On Jan. 26 and 28 at 7:30 p.m., Generalprobe will celebrate 25 years of German language theater the production of an original Singspiel.
Anna Piperato, tour guide for Rick Steves’ Europe and a freelance translator, will speak on “The Many Faces of Catherine of Siena: 14th-Century Mystic, Political Activist...Trouble.”
A new exhibit-installation, directed by Stephanie Sandberg, will be on display in McCarthy Gallery of Holekamp Hall at the Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics beginning Jan. 26.
Maurizio Albahari, associate professor of anthropology at the University of Notre Dame, will speak on “Crimes of Peace: Methods and Ethics of European Responses to Mediterranean Migrations.” 
University of Maryland professor Jennifer Golbeck will speak on “Footprints in the Digital Dust: How Your Online Behavior Says More Than You Think.”
Alex Meilech '18 has experienced tradition - from Lexington, Virginia to Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Meet Tara Loughery, a junior who was considering going pre-med, but decided to pursue a different path after the STEM Career Trip to Richmond.
Meet Olivia Sisson, a senior who has wanted to be an artist since she was little - but didn’t know how - about her experience on the Humanities Career Trip to New York.
Over Reading Days, three groups of students traveled out of Lexington - and into the “real world.” Their goal was to find alumni and recent graduates who had found success in their fields of interest - and learn from them.
Michael Hill, associate professor of English at the University of Iowa, will deliver a public lecture on “‘American Dreamin’: Adolescence in the Black Imagination.”
Alpha Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, the national leadership honor society, will welcome four honorary and 39 student initiates at Washington and Lee University’s annual Founders Day/ODK Convocation on Jan. 19 at 5 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
In the first installment of our new series, Ron Fuchs tells the story behind a 4,000-year-old jar in Watson Pavilion.
Meet Graham Novak '19, an aspiring - and already accomplished - entrepreneur
Meet Ryder Babik '19, a student who enjoys college as much as he enjoys helping others apply to college.
Meet Harrison Westgarth '17, a pre-med varsity athlete with a passion for teaching English for Speakers of Other Languages.
Washington and Lee's ceramics expert, Ron Fuchs, has been named chairman of the board of the American Ceramic Circle.
Award-winning British writer Nikesh Shukla to kick off the winter 2017 schedule of speakers of the 2016-18 Center for International Education Colloquium on Borders and Their Human Impact
Through the generosity of the Ruth E. Flournoy Theater Endowment, the Washington and Lee Department of Theater, Dance, and Film Studies will present Little Matchstick Factory’s “The Other Mozart,” written and performed by Sylvia Milo.
The one-night performance is at the Lenfest Center on Jan. 20 at 8 p.m. in the Wilson Concert Hall. No tickets are required and admission is free.
Poet and author Susan Briante will read from “The Market Wonders,” a lyric investigation into the stock market.
Diane Nash, peace activist and pioneer of the Civil Rights Movement, will be the featured keynote speaker during Washington and Lee University’s annual multi-day observance of King’s birthday, "Celebrating the Life and Legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr."
Meet Stephanie Chung '18, an anthropology major with a passion for women's health advocacy.
Finding answers in the space where science and art intersect.
Writer Charles Johnson mentioned two members of the Washington and Lee community in a New York Times piece.
“Aliyah, The Rebirth of Israel,” by Salvador Dalí, a suite of 25 lithographs commemorating the 25th anniversary of the founding of the state of Israel, will be on view from Jan. 9-Feb. 3.
W&L's Staniar Gallery is pleased to present erin o’Hara slavick’s exhibit “Illuminated Artifacts.” The show will be on display from Jan. 9 to Feb. 3, 2017.
Gwyn E. Campbell, professor of Spanish at Washington and Lee University, is the new associate dean of the college, beginning July 1. She succeeds Marcia France, who has held that post since 2012.
As a student at Washington and Lee, Noelani Love ’05 made jewelry for fun and extra income. Today, she has turned that hobby into a thriving business.
Meet Andy Cuthbert '18, a pre-med neuroscience major with a serious love of the outdoors.
In an interview with the Christian Science Monitor, Colón points to the key questions that must be asked when determining if the graphic nature of a photograph outweighs its journalistic importance.
Jonathan Holloway, historian of post-emancipation American history and black intellectualism and dean of Yale College, will be the featured speaker at Washington and Lee University’s Founders Day/Omicron Delta Kappa Convocation.
Complexions Contemporary Ballet comes to the Lenfest Center for a one-night engagement on Jan. 11.
W&L's Chanoyu Tea Society will host a Martin Luther King Jr. tea ceremony on Jan. 16, 2017 in the Senshin'an Tea Room, Watson Pavilion.
Richard Bidlack, the Martin and Brooke Stein Professor of History, writes about reconnecting with a former student in her hometown of Tbilisi, Georgia, 27 years after she was an exchange student at W&L.
W&L's Alpha Circle of ODK is a recipient of a 2017 Maurice A. Clay Leadership Development Initiative Grant, designed to enhance leadership development
Somehow, in addition to all of his coursework and extracurricular activities, Elliot Emadian has found the time to write, record and release his premiere album.
Kara Karcher '11 is parlaying her studies in poverty and women's and gender studies into a law career dedicated to helping women and children.
Shenandoah: The Washington and Lee University Review released its fall 2016 digital issue on Dec. 1. Volume 66, Number 1 includes original poetry, fiction, essays, reviews and visual art, as well as four Poems of the Week per month.
W&L's 8th Annual Writer in Residence Poetry Reading will feature John Hoppenthaler and R.T. Smith.
Witt Hawkins ’18, a global politics major and mass communications minor from Memphis, Tennessee, received a William Jefferson Clinton Scholarship to attend the American University in Dubai.
Ward Briggs ’67 has memorialized his longtime friend, writer James Dickey, with a large donation of Dickey materials to Washington and Lee Special Collections.
"It's been exciting to serve in this role and see others get interested in the advertising field, as well as having the opportunity to spend time and plan with several fabulous members of the Williams School staff."
"The conference is a great way to meet and network with alumni, and a leadership role with AdLib allows more opportunity to speak with and gain valuable advice from alumni in my interested field."
"When you’re involved with a large-scale project like AdLib that’s sponsored by the school, you come to learn that your work is a reflection of W&L as a whole."
Ken Ruscio was presented with the VMI Superintendent’s Meritorious Achievement Award in recognition of extraordinary service and dedication to the Institute an individual who is not a VMI employee.
Matthew Reichel '17 didn't expect to be cast as Edward in Washington and Lee's production of "Sense and Sensibility," but now he is embracing the part.
Kick off the holiday season with traditional and contemporary arrangements of favorite holiday tunes!
As superintendent of Cumberland Gap National Historical Park, Sula Jacobs ’00 enthusiastically promotes the virtues of the National Park Service, which turned 100 years old this year.
Alecia Swasy's new book tackles the impact of social media on journalism.
Mark Rush's "A Thanksgiving Prayer" was published in The Roanoke Times on Thanksgiving day.
Alecia Swasy, Donald W. Reynolds Chair in Business Journalism, writes about the media's coverage of rural America.
Michael Sullivan spent his summer interning at the Cultural Heritage Institute of the Netherlands in Amsterdam
Ricardo Dominguez, American artist and associate professor of visual arts at UC San Diego, will speak on “Disturbance Gestures: Art Between the Lines.”
Pasquale “Paqui” Toscano, a classics and English double major, is Washington and Lee’s 16th Rhodes Scholar.  The Rhodes Trust announced Sunday that Toscano, 22, of Kettering, Ohio, was one of 32 scholars chosen this year. The scholarships, valued at between $50,000 to $200,000, fully fund two to four years of study at the University of Oxford in England.
The title of Myers talk is “A Nation Remembers: Fredericksburg.” It will recall the events of December 1862 and their enduring legacy.
Children’s author, educator and social activist will discuss “Education, Poverty and Social Justice in an Age of Persistent Inequality.”
Geology professor Lisa Greer, who has been taking students to Belize since 2011 to monitor the health of coral reefs, said their research indicates that the latest El Niño, on top of global climate change, may be harming the Belize Barrier Reef.
Washington and Lee's contract to host three Virginia Governor’s Foreign Language Academies each summer has been renewed through 2021.
The University Singers will perform the "Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols" at W&L's annual Christmas Candlelight Service.
Washington and Lee faculty participated in a panel discussion on Thursday, Nov. 17, discussing the 2016 election from a variety of perspectives.
Alana DeJoseph ’92 is fulfilling her dream of creating a documentary history of the Peace Corps.
Shepherd Intern Zach Taylor explores a holistic approach to middle school education at the Washington Jesuit Academy.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Cameron Lee interns at the Cluj School of Public Health in Romania.
"My W&L experience has been defined by my love of biology and my passion for being active in my community."
Harvard Business School professor Nien-hê Hsieh to lecture on “The Role and Responsibilities of Business in Society: Back to Basics.”
Macy, an award-winning journalist and author, spoke as part of the Fishback Visiting Writers program.
The Staniar Gallery at Washington and Lee University presents “Modern Art Goes Pop: Selections from W&L's Art Collection.” The show will be on view Nov. 7 – Dec. 9.
The following opinion piece by Mark Rush, Waxberg Professor of Politics and Law and director of international education at Washington and Lee, appeared in the Richmond Times-Dispatch on November 6, 2016.
A discussion of "Gender Shrapnel in the Workplace," mentoring students and supporting W&L athletics.
John Donaldson ’92, who returns to campus next week as executive-in-residence at the Williams School, is helping to map the future of the music industry at Pandora Internet Radio.
Henry Eugene King, professor emeritus of psychology at Washington and Lee University, died on Oct. 31, at his home in Lexington, Virginia.
Carolyn Karcher to lecture on “Fighting Racism: Albion Tourgée and His African American Alliance During the 1890s.”
On Nov. 10-12, the award-winning Washington and Lee Repertory Dance Company will perform "W&L Dancers Create….”
“Streaming Wars and the Future of Music” will be the topic of John Donaldson’s address when he speaks at W&L Nov. 15.
Join one scientist on a journey through sleep, space, and safety.
University College London historian to give talk titled, “The Eye of the Other: Travel Writing and Travel Polemics in Eastern Europe from the 18th Century to the Present.”
The neuroscience major and philosophy minor will use her $500 research grant to fund her senior honors thesis.
Keith Woods, vice president of diversity in news and operations at NPR, will deliver the keynote address for the 62nd Ethics Institute in Journalism.
The Center for International Education at Washington and Lee University will present a panel discussion on “Brexit and the Crisis of Democracy in Europe” on Nov. 3 at 6 p.m. in the Stackhouse Theater in Elrod Commons at W&L. The discussion is free and open to the public.
Washington and Lee University this year welcomes seven foreign language teaching assistants.
Michika Nakada is one of seven foreign language teaching assistants at W&L this year.
Anna Jerusalem is one of seven foreign language teaching assistants at W&L this year.
Lucía Cespedes is one of seven foreign language teaching assistants at W&L this year.
Camille Bouillon is one of seven foreign language teaching assistants at W&L this year.
Olga Dunaevskaya is one of seven foreign language teaching assistants at W&L this year.
Hospice chaplain Kerry Egan '95 reflects on the important lessons her dying patients passed on to her.
Mengsu Kong is one of seven foreign languaga teaching assistants on the W&L campus this year.
Imad Baazizi is one of seven foreign language teaching assistants at W&L this year.
Jamie Hayes ’17 spent two summer months in New Zealand, where he conducted research that could eventually help to improve the diagnosis of gastrointestinal ailments.
Taylor Gulotta '17 discusses the challenges and rewards of stage managing the fall 2016 Bentley Musical "The Theory of Relativity."
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Bogdan Bors '17 interns with Community Empowerment Solutions, a social entrepreneurship company focusing on microconsignment opportunities in Ecuador.
The new musical, inspired by the actual stories of the millennial generation, celebrates the connections that unite and define us. .
David Sugerman '99 combines medicine with social service, responding to crises around the world and training those on the front lines of disease control. He will give a public talk on his career in public health on Tuesday, Oct. 25, at 5:30 p.m. in Science A214. .
Peter Wittig, German Ambassador to the U.S., will speak on “German Policy Toward the European Refugee Crisis” at W&L's Institute for Honor Symposium.
Aly Colón, Knight Professor of Ethics in Journalism at Washington and Lee University, recently shared his expertise in an Associate Press story titled, "Experts: No Clear Criminal Case Over Trump Tax Disclosure."
Jake Burnett, a Washington and Lee University senior from Anaheim Hills, California, has been awarded the 2016 David G. Elmes Pathfinder Prize in Psychology.
Kimberly Krawiec, the Kathrine Robinson Everett Professor of Law at Duke University and senior fellow and faculty council member at the Kenan Institute for Ethics, will give a lecture on “Gifts Within Markets? Taboo Trades in the Human Body.”
Imani Perry, the Hughes-Rogers Professor of African American Studies at Princeton University, will speak on “The Passionate Utterance: Black Women’s Literature and Freedom Dreams.”
Neeti Nair, associate professor in the Corcoran Department of History at the University of Virginia, to speak on "The Historian as Judge: Free Speech Case Laws in Postcolonial India and Pakistan.”
Four W&L faculty will talk about their experiences with Open Access publishing, both from the editorial and authorial perspectives, on Oct. 24 from 4:30–5:30 p.m.
Steven Yeung, who turned 21 in June, was one of the youngest members of the Virginia delegation — and one of the youngest delegates nationwide — at the Democratic National Convention in July.
A call for student proposals related to sustainability projects provided valuable results for the campus and community.
Award-winning financial journalist and author will give a talk at Washington and Lee University on Oct. 27 at 5 p.m. The lecture is free and open to the public.
Macy will speak on "Reporting From the Margins: 30 Years of Covering Exploitation, Greed and Race." Her talk is free and open to the public and a book signing will follow.
Sasha Goluboff talks about her farm, the influence of technology on student sociality and her most recent project involving a black church in Brownsburg, Virginia.
The new musical, inspired by the actual stories of the millennial generation, celebrates the connections that unite and define us.
Westgarth spent the summer interning at the NIH researching the rare congenital lysosomal storage disease, Neimann Pick Type C.
Above or below the water, Sasha Doss '13 studies and connects with fish and their environment.
Dan Claroni spent the summer working on unmanned aerial vehicles used to monitor gas emissions in Iceland.
The conference will explore two fundamental but related themes: the ethical issues surrounding the valuation of ecosystem services and the proper role of preference satisfaction in the development of environmental policy.
David Sugerman '99 combines medicine with social service, responding to crises around the world and training those on the front lines of disease control.
W&L physics professors Irina and Dan Mazilu join forces to mentor students and build a nanoscience program.
Seth C. Lewis, the Shirley Papé Chair in Electronic Media in the School of Journalism and Communications at the University of Oregon, will give a talk on “Journalists, Audiences…and Bots?! New Ways of Thinking about What’s Happening with News” on Oct. 21 at 4:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
Gordon Ball, visiting associate professor of English at Washington and Lee, says Bob Dylan's Nobel recognition is "vindication" after Ball nominated the singer-songwriter for the award 15 years in a row.
Bonner Scholar Peyton Powers helps to plan the Fall Bonner Congress Meeting, taking place on W&L's campus Oct. 14-16.
American students traveled abroad with international students for summer projects they created together. .
MK Asante, bestselling author, award-winning filmmaker, rapper and professor, will give the Oct. 15 keynote address for the annual Bonner Congress, held this year at Washington and Lee University. The lecture will be at 9 a.m. in Stackhouse Theater and is free and open to the public.
Aly Colón, Knight Professor of Ethics in Journalism at Washington and Lee University, recently shared his expertise in an Associate Press story titled, "Experts: No Clear Criminal Case Over Trump Tax Disclosure."
In an essay recently featured on Paint This Desert, Andrea Lepage, associate professor of art at Washington and Lee University, shares her thoughts on artist Vincent Valdez.
Philip Kitcher, the John Dewey Professor of Philosophy at Columbia University, will give a Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar lecture at Washington and Lee University on Oct. 27 at 5 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library. The title of the lecture is “The Case for Secular Humanism.”
Diana Henriques, an award-winning financial journalist and author, will give a talk at Washington and Lee on Oct. 27 at 5 p.m. in the Stackhouse Theater of Elrod Commons. The title of her speech is “The Timeless Lessons of the Bernie Madoff Scandal.”
Dr. Gregory Kulacki, the China project manager and senior analyst in the Global Security Program of the Union of Concerned Scientists, will lecture at Washington and Lee on Oct. 10 at 5 p.m. in Elrod Commons 345. The title of the talk, which is free and open to the public, is “The Risk of Nuclear War between the United States and China.”
Using the university's IQ Center to fabricate some of the parts, students designed an airplane for an engineering competition.
A double major in English and geology, plus a curiosity about the world around him, led Hanson to a career as a freelance writer, photographer and videographer. He is the author of "Breaking Through Concrete: Building an Urban Farm Revival" and producer of the documentary film "Who Owns the Water."
Denis “Pepe” Estrada Hamm and Jason Renner, both sophomores at Washington and Lee University, spent Sept. 13-15 at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s Public Policy Conference in Washington, D.C.
Physics professors Dan and Irina Mazilu discuss their path to the U.S., taking students abroad and exploring their adopted country one state at a time.
Sophomores Pepe Estrada and Jason Renner participate in public policy discussions at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s Public Policy Conference in Washington, D.C.
Shepherd Intern Hannah Falchuk '18 works for the Bowery Residents' Committee in New York City.
12 exceptional students experience a unique summer program aimed at increasing retention in STEM majors.
Lara Farina, an associate professor of English at West Virginia University, will give a lecture at Washington and Lee University on Oct. 27 at 12:15–1:15 p.m. in Hillel House Multipurpose Room 101.
The Departments of Journalism and Mass Communications and Politics at Washington and Lee University will host a mayoral debate on Oct. 11 at 7:30 p.m. in the Millhiser Moot Court Room of Lewis Hall, W&L’s Law School. Doors will open at 6:30 p.m.
Lee Chapel and Museum presents “Remembering Robert E. Lee” with a speech by J. Holt Merchant ’61, professor of history emeritus, at Washington and Lee University on Oct. 10 at 12:15 p.m. in Lee Chapel Auditorium.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Sonia Brozak '17 Travels to Florence to Study Art History.
One hundred years ago this month, Sept. 23, 1916, a young man named Kiffin Rockwell became the first alumnus of Washington and Lee University to give his life during World War I — not as an American doughboy, as you might expect, but as a founding member of the French air squadron known as the Escadrille Americaine, or the Lafayette Escadrille.
John G. Casali, John Grado Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering and director of the Auditory Systems Laboratory at Virginia Tech, will give a lecture at W&L Oct. 12 at 4 p.m.
The 2016-17 academic year marks the 10-year anniversary for Washington and Lee University’s Staniar Gallery. To mark the occasion, Staniar Gallery will present a group exhibition featuring recent works by Studio Art faculty and W&L alumni who studied art in Wilson Hall and Staniar Gallery. “Decade: Staniar Gallery's 10-Year Anniversary Exhibition” will be on view Sept. 30–Oct. 28.
Peter Singer, the Ira W. DeCamp Professor of Bioethics at Princeton University and a Laureate Professor at the Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics at the University of Melbourne, is the keynote speaker for the 2016–17 Markets and Morals series, sponsored by the Roger Mudd Center for Ethics at W&L
Stephanie Sandberg's play "Stories in Blue: A Pilgrimage to Heal Human Trafficking"debuts this week at ArtPrize in Grand Rapids, MI. Sandberg, assistant professor of theater at Washington and Lee, was interviewed about the play on NPR's Stateside program.
Ellen Mayock, Ernest Williams II Professor of Romance Languages and professor of women’s and gender studies at Washington and Lee University, was featured in a recent story in Inside Higher Ed.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Prakhar Naithani '17 conducts research at North Carolina State University's Forestry Biomaterials Department.
English major Kassie Scott '18 interns for an NGO focused on human rights and gender equality in Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
Harald Leibrecht, former member of the Bundestag (German Federal Parliament), will give a lecture on “Germany and the European Union: Current Issues and Challenges” at Washington and Lee University on Sept. 22 at 7 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
Engineering major Walker Brand '18 gets a taste of the defense industry at Hardwire Armor Systems.
The Anne and Edgar Basse Jr. Author Talk Series, presented by the Leyburn University Library at Washington and Lee University, continues at 5 p.m. on Thursday, Oct. 20, with a talk by H. Thomas Williams, emeritus professor of physics at W&L.
Business administration and philosophy major Gordon McAlister '17 interns on the tech team at Sands Capital Management in Washington, D.C.
Washington and Lee University will kick off its National Hispanic Heritage Month celebration with two guest speakers on Tuesday, Sept. 20.
Actress and producer Paten Hughes’ dream role would be to play Hillary Clinton. “I find her incredibly interesting,” she said in an interview with The Tulcan Times.  In the meantime, the recent W&L French and theater graduate has another project that launched Sept. 9 — “Heirloom,” the debut of a nine-part rom-com web series on Vimeo.
David Miller, professor of political theory, University of Oxford, and official fellow in social and political theory, Nuffield College, Oxford, will give the keynote address for the German Law in Context Program at Washington and Lee University School of Law on Oct. 7 at 3 p.m. in Millhiser Moot Court Room, Lewis Hall.
Author and poet Erika Meitner will be reading from her work at Washington and Lee University on Sept. 28 at 4:30 p.m. in the Hillel House Multipurpose Room (room 101).
Members of Washington and Lee's Executive Committee, College Republicans and College Democrats placed American flags on the walkway between Lee Chapel and Washington Hall this weekend in remembrance of those who lost their lives in New York, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C. 15 years ago.
Taking part in the Sustainability Leadership Pre-Orientation Program allowed a group of Washington and Lee first-years to understand the many facets of creating and supporting sustainable communities.
The Anne and Edgar Basse Jr. Author Talk Series, presented by the Leyburn University Library at Washington and Lee University, will begin this academic year with a talk by Professor Ellen Mayock on Tuesday, Sept. 20.
Hit Show Inspires Spring Term Course on the Politics of Race and Gender.
Physics-engineering and computer science major Aswasan Joshi '17 interns in product development at Jobscience in San Francisco.
Warren, who also serves as the director of the Society's American Revolution Institute, will lecture on "The American Revolution and National Identity.”
New student-sourced sustainability initiatives get the green light on campus.
Dr. Edward L. Ayers, the Tucker-Boatwright Professor of the Humanities and president emeritus at the University of Richmond, will give a lecture at Washington and Lee University on Sept. 22 at 7 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
Nigel Smith, the William and Annie S. Paton Foundation Professor of Ancient and Modern Literature at Princeton University, will give a lecture at Washington and Lee University on Sept. 22 at 5 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
When the floodwaters from the August storms in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, finally receded, James McCullum was one of many volunteers to head to the devastated region. A member of the Maryland-based Ananda Marga Universal Relief Team, he connected with the St. Bernard Project to help gut homes damaged by the flooding.
Meet Jordan LaPointe '17, an East Asian Languages and Literatures major with a sense of adventure. A lifelong dream comes true in Japan.
Kiki Martire is an English major with a minor in women's and gender studies from Baltimore, Md. A member of the Class of 2015, she traveled abroad to the South Pacific during her junior year.
Studying and Teaching the Japanese Way of Tea.
Fort Dauphin, Madagascar.
Myrna Barrera-Torres '15 in Vina del Mar, Chile, and Rome, Italy.
University College, London.
"Faculty and staff have supported me in my pursuit of fostering a greater global perspective to bring back to Lexington."
"In my four years here, most of my 'classrooms' were not in a classroom."
Eric Schwen '15 in  Paris, Madrid and London.
.
.
"W&L has allowed me to satisfy my need to wander."
"Being abroad for so long really changed my perspective on many aspects of W&L, and made me appreciate it so much more."
Computer Science major Rajwol Joshi discusses his experiences at W&L.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Franklin Wolfe '16 Travels to Europe to Gather Data for 3D Geologic Models.
"The one thing that will set you apart and help define you is how you cope with the challenges you face, learn from them and move on."
Recipients of W&L's Certificate of International Immersion reflect on their experiences abroad.
Connor Chess '17 spends a summer studying, working and teaching in Costa Rica, thanks to a Wooley Fellowship.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Sara Jones '18 Travels to India to Study Maternal and Child Health.
Sage Timberline is a biochemistry major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Richmond, Va. A member of the Class of 2015, she interned at the Downtown Health Plaza in Winston-Salem, N.C.
Studio art major Leigh Stauffer '16 works as a membership and development intern at The High Museum of Art in Atlanta.
Janey Fugate is a journalism and Romance languages major from Atlanta, Ga. She spent a summer interning as a reporter for El Nuevo Herald, the Spanish language newspaper in Miami.
Shepherd Intern at Bridges, St. Paul's School in Baltimore.
Emma Busse is a sociology and economics major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Charleston, W.Va. A member of the Class of 2015, she spent a summer in Camden, N.J., as a Shepherd Intern with the Cooper's Ferry Partnership, development firm that uses a multi-faceted approach to make Camden a better place to live, work, and invest.
A Q&A with Volunteer Firefighter Steven Vranian '15.
Emmanuel Abebrese is a biochemistry major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Woodbridge, Va. A member of the Class of 2015, he is a member of the Student Association for International Learning, the African Students Association and the Beta Beta Beta biology honor society. He is also the founder of Citadel Foundation for Kids, a nonprofit organization in Ghana and the U.S. that provides children with mentors, resources and training to prepare them for future global leadership and focuses on alleviating child poverty worldwide.
"W&L is a community that truly enables and encourages students to step outside of their comfort zones."
Kiki Martire '15 studies challenges to women in political leadership in Samoa.
Stuart Hogue '96 believes in the power of girls to end global poverty.
"The relationships I have made and strengthened while volunteering over the course of my time in Lexington are more important to me than I could have imagined."
Nicole Gunawansa ’14 is passionate about delivering health care to marginalized patients.
Author and Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Carl Bernstein will deliver the keynote address for the 15th annual Institute for Honor Symposium on Friday at 4:00 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Kayla Sylvester '17 Volunteers with a Local Literacy Council in South Dakota.
After majoring in biochemistry, religion and music composition at W&L, Thomas Day took his skills to help people at their most vulnerable point in life. .
Psychology major Darby Lundquist '17 interns at Eastern Virginia Medical School.
W&L Psychology professor Tyler Lorig reports from his AAAS fellowship on Capitol Hill.
Politics and Spanish major Noelle Rutland '17 interns for the Department of Defense.
Kristine Kilanski ’07 looked at the "invisible" side of Austin through the eyes of another to contribute to a book about inequality in the city.
Cynthia Cheatham '07 finds purpose in a variety of settings as she advocates for underrepresented communities.
Biology and Spanish major Harrison Westgarth '17 researches a rare congenital disease at the National Institutes of Health.
"W&L is about the people who make the traditions and community succeed."
Margaret McClintock is an English major with a minor in art history from Tunica, Miss. A member of the Class of 2015, she has been president of the Panhellenic Council, and Appalachian Adventure Trip leader, a member of the Contact Committee, the Student Faculty Hearing Board, the Student Affairs Committee and Traveller.
Laurent Boetsch Term Associate Professor of Sociology.
Patrick O'Connor is a business administration major with a minor in education policy from Richmond, Va. A member of the Class of 2015, he is a member of the varsity basketball team, a first-year resident advisor and a Burish intern.
Bailey Russell is a studio art (photography) major from Huntsville, Alabama. A member of the Class of 2016, she is co-chair of the LEAD Banquet Planning Committe, a DJ at WLUR, a peer tutor and a member of Reformed University Fellowship and KLAZICS hip-hop dance group. .
"A large part of my personal growth has stemmed from my involvement with W&L athletics."
Professor of Business Journalism .
Associate Professor of History.
John X. Miller '77, managing editor of Winston-Salem Journal, adds his name to the city's list of 'firsts.'
"I have been challenged to step outside my comfort zone, encouraged to pursue my passions, and nurtured as a student, a leader and an individual."
Seniors Teddy Corcoran and Stephanie Foster get students from around the country talking about ethics.
Lenfest Center House Directors work behind the scenes to keep performances running smoothly.
Accounting and Business Administration major lends her planning skills to the annual Souper Bowl benefit for the Campus Kitchen Backpack Program.
For Bert Ponder '83, of Atlanta, and his daughter, Wyn '16, volunteering for the Annual Fund has become a family tradition. Bert serves as the chair of the Annual Fund, while Wyn is one of five lead class agents for the Class of 2016. .
"All around me, I was exposed to ideas and opinions I had not considered before."
ODK National Leader of the Year Paqui Toscano talks about his approach to leadership.
Rising senior Steven Yeung was one of the youngest members of the Virginia delegation — and one of the youngest delegates nationwide — at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia.
Mike Wilner '13 is on the fast track as a young entrepreneur.
Haley Miller '16, a lifelong lover of sports, works as a marketing intern for Adidas.
Students learn how two seemingly different disciplines are intertwined together in harmony.
Experiential marketing puts Gabrey Means '92 and her clients in unexpected places.
Professor Michael Laughy uses digital technology in the classroom to study ancient Greece.
Mathematics major Matthew Kiser '16 interns at the recruiting software company Jobscience in San Fransisco.
Alessandra Catizone '15 and Eleanor Jones '15 provide prosthetic hands to amputees in El Salvador.
W&L's IQ Center and Dalí Studio Assistant Collaborate to Create Innovative Art.
Intern at Grow Marketing in San Francisco.
Chemistry major Levi Warring interns with NASA.
Juniors Lizzy Stanton and Lenny Enkhbold use geo-spatial visualizations to explore new interpretations of 19th-century German literature.
The General Flyers club draws on engineering skills and IQ Center resources to design and fabricate an unmanned, electric-powered, radio-controlled aircraft.
A group of Washington and Lee students spent February break constructing a bio-sand water filter for a school in Belmopan, Belize.
"One of the most important things about science, and any discipline, is communication."
Amber Cooper '12 brings her passion for creativity and communications to her marketing career.
Through teaching and practice, Cliff Holekamp '96 is reinventing St. Louis with entrepreneurship.
Zillow COO Amy Bohutinsky '97 shares her expertise with students at AdLib 2016.
"It is the strength of community and society that really makes W&L more than simply another great university."
"W&L has certainly taught me to expect the unexpected in a community of unique individuals."
Charlotte Sisk spent the summer working as a project management intern for the Saatchi & Saatchi global communications and advertising agency network in New York City.
W&L Students Distill Shakespeare Plays to Their Essence.
English and journalism major Sara Korash-Schiff '15 interns in book publishing in Nashville.
Anna DiBenedetto '15 interns at HGTV magazine.
Business administration and art history major Colton Klein '15 interns at Sotheby's headquarters in New York City.
"A liberal arts education hones transferable skills."
"Over my years at W&L I have constantly been drawing and redrawing myself, trying to find the most sincere, visceral and true parts."
"W&L has given me the resources and experiences that I need to continue my intellectual, professional, and emotional growth outside of Lexington."
"College is a place where you will grow no matter how you go through it. The only thing you control is who you grow to be."
"I will always remember my time at Washington and Lee because it has helped me to grow and realize my interests."
Mass communication and American history major Will Bartlett '15 interns for CBS News.
Michael Bronstein '15 and T.J. Fisher '15 study the evolution of the depiction of chaos in art and neuroscience.
Christopher Levy '15 and Sara Korash-Schiff '15 study the production of overtones in choral music.
"I am where I am because of W&L."
"My W&L experience has been everything I thought that college would be."
"W&L professors have a knack for making their students realize their true potential."
"Creativity has many meanings, but for me and with regards to my college experience, it means the opportunity to shape my own identity."
"At W&L you'll find the support to pursue anything."
"W&L is more than just a school, and the professors are more than just educators."
"Washington and Lee has been the happy intersection of the qualities I desired in a large and small school."
Sonia Brozak '17 studies Leonardo da Vinci's Annunciation.
"Day Out: A Story of a Mother's Love:" On stage at the Symposium of Theater in Academe on March 27.
"The greatest thing for me about the W&L journalism program is the numerous opportunities you have to succeed and keep learning."
Johnson Opportunity Grant winner connects interests in economics and art history at famed auction house.
Johnson Opportunity Grant winner tries her hand at brand marketing in Charleston, S.C.
Accounting and Religion major Andrea Owen '16 interns for Ernst & Young.
Senior Xiaoxiang Yang gets a taste of the consulting world with The Brattle Group.
Jamie Hayes '17, Alfred Rwagaju '18 and Rajwol Joshi '18 are applying electrical engineering to create a medical solution for affordable diagnoses.
Azmain Amin '17 and Mina Shnoudah '17 look to automate testing of web services.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Anna Paden Carson '16 Helps Detained Immigrants Navigate the Immigration System.
Business Administration and Romance Languages Major Carley Sambrook '17 Interns for Michael Kors.
Sophomore Rachel Steffen interns for the National Marine Mammal Foundation.
Kate McCreary and Kara Farroni spend their summer researching the endangered Peaks of Otter salamander.
"One of my goals is to bring Hillel to the students — to show them that we're here, and that we're here for everyone. ".
Maggie Voelzke '15 gets her start in television as a news associate in CNN's Washington, D.C. Bureau.
"Friend groups are everywhere, traditions are most places, but the caring professors and impassioned students I have found in the German and History departments are one of a kind."
The Long Road to Facebook.
"My W&L experience is defined by a multitude of activities, academics, and opportunities."
"In those newsrooms surrounded by professional journalists, I still emailed my professors when I needed honest advice."
Senior Thomas Pritchard tests the service life of parachutes at the Natick Soldier Research Development and Engineering Center.
Katie Baird '10 connects with students interested in consulting careers.
Araba Wubah '17 conducts immunology research in Ghana.
"The university has instilled in me a curiosity that expands beyond the classroom."
"For me, W&L is limitless. This is a community that supports, and even encourages, its members to identify and pursue multiple passions."
Geology major Dan Claroni '17 interns for the Icelandic Meteorological Office in Reykjavík.
Business administration and art history major Sarah Williamson '18 interns in the finance department at the Guggenheim.
Art history and business administration major Sarah Wagner interns in the public relations department of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.
Journalism major Leslie Yevak interns at Fox News Channel.
Computer science and mathematics major Jamie White interns as a software developer at Amazon.com.
Kendrick Award winner Linda Gaida '16 reflects on her experience in the Gila Wilderness of New Mexico.
"Learning how to code is more like an exercise in design, engineering and detective work than an exercise in learning a foreign language."
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Stephen Himmelberg '17 Studies Sport-Related Traumatic Brain Injury.
Shepherd Intern at Tapestri, Inc. in Atlanta.
"At W&L you learn so much more in your interactions with others than what you see in the classroom."
"One word can sum up my feelings about the last three years: Grateful."
Abby Block '17 interns for the Cleveland Clinic.
Johnson Opportunity Grant winner gets a taste of state politics the Tennessee State Capitol.
"W&L manages to be a catalyst for adventure while still offering that 'welcome home' feeling."
"This university can open many doors for its students, most of them unexpected."
Crisis and charity bond Bonner Students during Washington Break.
Psychology major Lainey Johnson combines research and service for the benefit of a local non-profit.
Sophomore Brett Becker has started the Pre-dental Club for Washington and Lee students who want to study dentistry and to volunteer in the community.
The first exhibit of the academic year at Washington and Lee University’s Staniar Gallery, which will be on view Sept. 1–24, is “Geolocation: Tributes to the Data Stream,” photographs by Nate Larson and Marni Shindelman.
Ambassador Theodore Kattouf, the first speaker of Washington and Lee’s 2016-18 Center for International Educational Colloquium on “Borders and Their Human Impact,” will give a lecture on Sept. 14 at 5:15 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete The College archive.