The project will require periodic modifications to pedestrian and vehicular traffic in the area.
After graduation, Gallagher is headed to New York to work in the state and local tax group at PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Tax law expert Randle Pollard has joined the W&L Law faculty as the Rochelle and Thomas McN. Millhiser ‘81L Professor of Practice. 
W&L Law students offer free estate planning to area residents.
Michelle Drumbl and her fellow panelists will share their research and perspectives on the future of refundable tax credits.
Andrew Dagen '22L got the chance to work in the United States Tax Court in Washington D.C. after it reopened virtually this fall.
Michelle Lyon Drumbl, Robert O. Bentley Professor of Law and director of the Tax Clinic at the Washington and Lee University School of Law, has been appointed to a one-year term as interim dean of the law school effective July 1, 2021.
Michelle Lyon Drumbl, Clinical Professor of Law and Director of the Tax Clinic at Washington and Lee University School of Law, has published a new book that identifies shortcomings in how the United States delivers social benefits through its tax system.
Hellwig, Dean and Professor of Law, spoke on the tax plight of high-salary employees after the 2017 tax legislation.
Brianna Pine, a third-year law student at W&L Law and student attorney in the Tax Clinic, won first place in a recent tax advocacy contest sponsored by the Low Income Taxpayer Clinic (LITC) grant program.
The Tax Clinic at the Washington and Lee University School of Law has been awarded a matching grant by the Internal Revenue Service’s Low-Income Taxpayer Clinic (LITC) Program Office. This is the twelfth straight year that the Tax Clinic has received federal dollars to support its efforts.
Third-year law students Cole Bollman and Pierce Rigney visited a class at Rockbridge County High School to discuss the federal income tax system.
The Tax Clinic at the Washington and Lee University School of Law has been awarded a matching grant from the Internal Revenue Service’s Low-Income Taxpayer Clinic program (LITC).
Tax Clinic cases rarely go to trial, but this semester, for only second time in the Clinic's history, a student argued a case before the U.S. Tax Court.
W&L Law Tax Clinic students Gabrielle Ongies, Roland Hartung, and Javier Puga presented at the Annual Statewide Legal Aid Conference.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Tax Law archive.