Pernell has been awarded a Young Professional Journalist Program Award to conduct research and gain career experience in Germany.
Jackson Flower will share his research at The Virginia Commonwealth University on April 7.
Tetiana Kozachanska ’26 is taking full advantage of her first year at Washington and Lee.
Avalon Pernell ’23 credits the mentorship she received on campus as she launches her career in business journalism.
Since graduation, Schiffman has worked as an account executive at Anomaly on the Crown Royal team in SoHo, New York City.  
After his USTA program orientation in September, Tinsley will teach in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
After her USTA program orientation in September, Shugart will team teach in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
Maggie Hardin '22 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany.
Keeley will live in a German community for one academic year to teach English to students in a local school.
Riter will spend the next academic year volunteering with a community organization, working as an English teaching assistant and taking courses at the University of Graz.
Approximately 70% of students participate in an abroad program during their time at W&L.
Foxen’s USTA position with Fulbright Austria starts in October 2021.
Bui’s USTA position with Fulbright Austria starts in September 2021.
Lucas Flood '21 fell for W&L when he saw it for the first time on a family road trip, and he's found it an ideal place to study history and German. 
Despite COVID-19, Jared Nickodem '20 was able to make it to Austria, where he is teaching English to students as part of the U.S. Teaching Assistant Program.
Sadlowski has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany starting January 2021.
Nickodem’s USTA position with Fulbright Austria starts in September 2020.
Keller has received a USTA position with Fulbright Austria starting in October 2020.
This year’s seminar will focus on “The Impact of Digitalization on the Future of Higher Education.” 
While at Washington and Lee, Lencioni has taken several German classes and studied abroad in Berlin.
Reid Gaede ’19 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany. 
Tsvetkova will be working at Robert Bosch GmbH a large multinational engineering and electronics company.
CBYX is a yearlong fellowship, funded by the German Bundestag and U.S. Congress through the U.S. Department of State. 
Washington and Lee University senior Jackson Ellis ’19 has won a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany for summer 2019.
Carpenter will study in Lübeck, Germany, at the University of Lübeck. She will work in a lab that focuses on the dietary regulation of tissue circadian clock function in mice.
Dau will live and work in Vienna for nine months.
Patterson will be interning with a lab at the Senckenberg Natural History Collections in Dresden, Germany.
Sykes will be working this summer with Ernst & Young in Frankfurt.
Mark Donohue '19 spent the summer working as a software engineering intern at a company called AGCO, located in southern Bavaria.
Gonz Ferrero ’04 and Lenny Enkhbold ’17 blend their shared concern for the environment with a dash of business savvy to promote eco-friendly outdoor wear. 
Jackson Ellis '19 is working with a German consulting agency to help international student-athletes navigate the college application process.
Doan Bui ’21 and Hashim Syed ’19 have won Gilman Scholarships to study abroad.
The program helps American students secure three-month long business internships in Germany.
Kelly Douma ’16 is on track to complete her doctorate in early modern German history and women’s studies by 2021.
Julia Kaczmar '19 spent a summer in New York City, learning the logistics of the latest fashions.
Ben Schaeffer '18 is working with German professor Paul Youngman on a project involving references to the railway in German literature.
The Roanoke Times profiled graduating senior Matt Carl in today's commencement story.
Generalprobe, the German student language drama group at Washington and Lee University, will perform two one-act comedies written and directed by the students.
For World Thinking Day, W&L's foreign language teaching assistants led local Girl Scouts in a variety of internationally themed activities.
Meet Lenny Enkhbold '17, a computer scientist with a passion for the outdoors, who isn't afraid to have a good laugh.
On Jan. 26 and 28 at 7:30 p.m., Generalprobe will celebrate 25 years of German language theater the production of an original Singspiel.
Washington and Lee University this year welcomes seven foreign language teaching assistants.
Anna Jerusalem is one of seven foreign language teaching assistants at W&L this year.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete German archive.