The first-year biology professor co-authored a paper titled “Sponge-derived matter is assimilated by coral holobionts.” 
First-year biology professor co-authored a paper titled “Microbiome environmental shifts differ between two co-occurring octocoral hosts.” 
Lucy Worthy ’24 assisted in the research and helped publish the results alongside two W&L alumni. 
Lauren Shelby ’23 will be pursuing her master’s degree at New York University.
Robert Humston will assess over 30 years of data collected by the U.S. Forest Service within the George Washington and Thomas Jefferson National Forests.
Professor of Biology Robert Humston’s Spring Term course takes a deep dive into environmental problem-solving.
Professors Nadia Ayoub and Kyle Friend, and students Jamal Magoti ’23, Maria Luzaran ’23, Cooper Lazo ’24 and Eman Muamar ’24 all contributed to the paper that appeared in the open science platform Frontiers.
Boyd’s piano recital will be held in person and via Livestream on May 17 at 7 p.m.
Seay has been selected for the Goldwater Scholarship to support a research career in science, mathematics and engineering, and also earned the Udall Scholarship in the environmental category.
Boussy has been awarded a Fulbright-Nehru research grant to study Buddhist shrines and temples in India.
Bill Hamilton will utilize the grant to fund his ongoing research on ecosystem health in Yellowstone National Park.  
Mike Hepner serves as a laboratory technician for the biology department.
Katie Wall Podracky '05 painted the landscape of more than 40 state parks during the COVID-19 shutdown.
The grant funds a three-year study in collaboration with Pennsylvania State University and East Tennessee State University.
Nadia Ayoub, professor of biology, will discuss this year’s Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine on Wednesday, Feb. 8.
After nearly three decades of training, Laura Goodwin '99 accomplished her lifelong dream: to swim the English Channel.
First-year Johnson Scholar to offer preliminary research on foot-limb dominance and neuromuscular asymmetry in pediatric soccer players.
Bonner Kirkland '23 conducted biomedical research this summer in the Children’s National Hospital’s Department of Genetic Medicine.
Lucy Worthy ’24 is conducting clinical research and shadowing a physician at the Mayo Clinic.
Leah Jackson ’22 always knew she wanted to pursue the health field. Thanks to summer internships and dedication, she heads off to Harvard this fall to follow her passion.  
Sarah Burd ’24 is spending her summer working for a medical technology company in Vienna, Austria, that specializes in prosthetic limbs.
Bridget Osas ’25 is researching behavioral impacts on the development of metabolic syndromes like obesity.
The STEM-focused endowment will support internships, research opportunities, academic conference costs and other student experiences.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Carley will serve as an English language teaching assistant in a school in the former Soviet republic.
In this Spring Term course, Washington and Lee students are making data science look like a walk in the park.
CSI: W&L students are learning forensic science with the help of a real FBI evidence response team.
The new episode of "W&L After Class: The Lifelong Learning Podcast" features biology professor Nadia Ayoub, who explains her research with black widow spiders.
Chris Tucker '23 spent the summer researching Western Bluebirds in Missoula with a biology professor from the University of Arizona.
Professor Nadia Ayoub was interviewed in a Wired article about her work with spider silk.
Leah Lanier recently published a journal article titled “Activation of Prp28 ATPase by phosphorylated Npl3 at a critical step of spliceosome remodeling.”
Stern will travel to South Korea this summer to study in Seoul, South Korea.
It's the most wonderful term of the year, so keep an eye on @wlunews social media and this post for a daily dose of W&L's deeply engaging four-week term.
Helping with sheep at Tom Stanley's farm is providing Isaiah Medina '22 and Abby Hamilton '22 with valuable experience that they can include on future veterinary school applications. 
The pandemic has presented challenges to working and learning within the community, but virtual and distanced projects have allowed those partnerships to continue to bear fruit this year. 
Associate Professor of Biology Nadia Ayoub collaborated with students and alumni to publish a research article in the open-access journal PLOS ONE titled “The common house spider, Parasteatoda tepidariorum, maintains silk gene expression on sub-optimal diet.”
Jerónimo Reyes '21 says he is so immensely grateful for the gifts in his life, including a QuestBridge scholarship to W&L, that he wants to become a doctor and devote his career to helping others. 
Testing sewage samples for the virus that causes COVID-19 is helping W&L to do targeted human testing and identify asymptomatic cases before they trigger large outbreaks.
Fifteen W&L faculty members and two alumnae have signed on to help teach a Fall Term course that will cover multiple aspects of the COVID-19 crisis.
Chris Johnson ’00 uses his camera to document the COVID-19 crisis.
Spring Term courses aim to provide innovative, one-of-a-kind educational experiences to W&L students. Online instruction during COVID-19 led to many new opportunities.
Berger has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain starting January 2021.
Amid a national shortage of PPE, W&L employees put the IQ Center’s 3D printers to work making face shields and mask strap holders for local health care workers.
John Knox, Skip Williams, and Maryanne Simurda were awarded $15,000 for their research on Helenium virginicum, or Virginia sneezeweed.
Jackson Roberts ’19, Ryann Carpenter ’20 and biology professors Sarah Blyth and Natalia Toporikova co-authored a paper published in the Journal of Endocrine Research.
Lainey Johnson '16 values connections with a variety of people from different backgrounds, which is something she learned to prize at W&L. 
Chaisson’s lecture, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Cosmic Evolution.”
The event, which is free and open to the public, is titled "The Future of the Amazon Rain Forest."
Working with ICU patients at Vanderbilt University Medical Center through the Allen Grant has reaffirmed neuroscience major Laney Smith's desire to become a surgeon.
Through coursework and connections, Hannah Archer '20 helped to create a school food service program to ensure that local children have enough to eat during the summer. 
W&L courses in economics and biology used community-based learning to engage in partnerships and make an impact on food insecurity at a local level.
In Professor David Marsh's Spring Term class, the Blue Ridge Mountains became a living laboratory for the study of salamanders.
In the Genetic Engineering and Society SIn the Genetic Engineering and Society Spring Term class, students focus on the intersection of science, medicine, law, agriculture, ethics and public policy.pring Term class, students focus on the intersection of science, medicine, law, agriculture and public policy.
Megan Hill Gambrill ’05 had long fantasized about a job where she’d get to play in the dirt all day.
Syed is a biology major and a Middle East and South Asia studies minor.
Sophie Wilks ’21 has won a $4,300 Nemours Summer Undergraduate Research Scholarship for her project. 
Fon Teawdatwan '19 has led three service trips to Charleston, West Virginia, for Volunteer Venture, a service-learning, pre-orientation program for incoming students.
Patterson will be interning with a lab at the Senckenberg Natural History Collections in Dresden, Germany.
At W&L, sustainability starts with a seed and blossoms into sea change. Take a peek inside our gardening and composting effort to see how it's impacting our community — and the future.
The award recognizes faculty at Virginia’s institutions of higher learning who exemplify the highest standards of teaching, scholarship and service.
The title of Gary Staab’s presentation is “Digital Dinosaurs: Fleshing out the Past." 
Deepthi Thumuluri '20 won a Virginia Academy of Sciences grant to continue her research into the relationship between diet-induced obesity, exercise and the gut microbiome.
After spending the summer teaching and exploring in Costa Rica, Taylor Casey '20 can't wait to return.
Whether she's leading the Student Association for Black Unity, acting in a play or volunteering in the community as a Bonner Scholar, Sasha Edwards '20 is ever mindful that education can happen anywhere.
Caroline Caruso '21 loved Costa Rica so much that she wants to open a medical practice there after graduate school. 
The grant will help fund a multidisciplinary team from three institutions, including W&L, that will investigate how variation in adhesive-protein components of spider silk relate to differences in the glue’s material properties.
As a senior ecologist with Trihydro Corp., Jana Heisler White '98 works on environmental protection and remediation.
Elizabeth McDonald heads to Japan, Emily Austin to Indonesia and Riley Ries to Kyrgyzstan.
The NSF only funds about 11,000 of the 40,000 proposals it receives annually for research, education and training projects. 
Women in Technology and Science gives girls from local middle and elementary schools an opportunity to perform science experiments in all disciplines during the academic year.
As a research assistant at the Virginia Institute of Marine Science, Rachel Steffen ’18 gathered data on the environmental thresholds of juvenile sandbar sharks.
For Christine Starer-Smith ’99, a love of animals led to a veterinary career and volunteer service at a remote Dakota reservation.
Ethiopia Getachew '19 always had an interest in science, but working in the biochemistry lab and volunteering with local EMTs helped her future plans take shape.
Maggie Little, director of the Kennedy Institute of Ethics (KIE) at Georgetown University, will speak on “Research With Pregnant Women: A Moral Imperative.”
Over the summer, students worked with Professor Robert Humston to examine the potential effects of smallmouth bass on native brook trout populations in the Virginia watershed.
Olivia Kubli '18's summer volunteer work included photographing lions, giraffes and elephants in Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe.
Through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty, Tyra Barrett '18 interned at the Camden Coalition of Healthcare Providers in New Jersey.
Twelve Class of 2021 students visited W&L for a five-week Advanced Research Cohort program that allowed them to dabble in STEM projects and establish quality relationships.
Annie Jeckovich ’18 is studying the effects of obesity on reproduction in W&L's Fat Rat lab.
Dashiell Dericks ’18 and Jesse Evans ’20 are selling saplings grown from Colonnade oak trees in a new business that marries Dericks' love of silviculture and his fondness for W&L.
Washington and Lee University owns a first edition of one of the most important — and controversial — books ever written.
As director of Iowa State University's conservation camp, Jennifer Schieltz ’08 follows the lives of elk, deer, moose, bears, wolves and mountain lions.
W&L senior Harrison Westgarth has been awarded a Fulbright grant to Brazil, where he will study the “Development of an Animal Model of Direct and Congenital Zika Virus Transmission.”
Meet Laura Beth Lavette ‘17, a senior with a passion for introducing first-year students to W&L.
Scott Boyd, a neurosurgeon who graduated from W&L in 1986 with a B.S. in biology, was sworn in as a trustee of his alma mater on Feb. 10, in Lexington.
A multi-disciplinary Community-Based Research project gave Washington and Lee University students a chance to help local organizations take a closer look at access to affordable healthy food.
Sejal Mistry ’17, a biology major and poverty studies minor, has completed a service project that aims to improve the nutritional value of foods in the Campus Kitchen at Washington and Lee’s Backpack Program.
Meet Harrison Westgarth '17, a pre-med varsity athlete with a passion for teaching English for Speakers of Other Languages.
Geology professor Lisa Greer, who has been taking students to Belize since 2011 to monitor the health of coral reefs, said their research indicates that the latest El Niño, on top of global climate change, may be harming the Belize Barrier Reef.
"My W&L experience has been defined by my love of biology and my passion for being active in my community."
David Sugerman '99 combines medicine with social service, responding to crises around the world and training those on the front lines of disease control. He will give a public talk on his career in public health on Tuesday, Oct. 25, at 5:30 p.m. in Science A214. .
Westgarth spent the summer interning at the NIH researching the rare congenital lysosomal storage disease, Neimann Pick Type C.
Above or below the water, Sasha Doss '13 studies and connects with fish and their environment.
12 exceptional students experience a unique summer program aimed at increasing retention in STEM majors.
Fort Dauphin, Madagascar.
.
Recipients of W&L's Certificate of International Immersion reflect on their experiences abroad.
A Q&A with Volunteer Firefighter Steven Vranian '15.
Stuart Hogue '96 believes in the power of girls to end global poverty.
Biology and Spanish major Harrison Westgarth '17 researches a rare congenital disease at the National Institutes of Health.
"A liberal arts education hones transferable skills."
Sophomore Rachel Steffen interns for the National Marine Mammal Foundation.
Kate McCreary and Kara Farroni spend their summer researching the endangered Peaks of Otter salamander.
Azmain Amin '17 and Mina Shnoudah '17 look to automate testing of web services.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Stephen Himmelberg '17 Studies Sport-Related Traumatic Brain Injury.
"W&L manages to be a catalyst for adventure while still offering that 'welcome home' feeling."
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Biology archive.