In an article on OpinioJuris, Drumbl discusses the legacy of the Special Court for Sierra Leone and its residual function.
Lillian Weitz '25L discusses her research with the UN Office of Drugs and Crime.
Sabrina Callender-Clewett '25L writes about the German Law Journal's trip to Berlin.
Professor Mark Drumbl participated in a conference examining the legacy of the international court that prosecuted war crimes.
The event will bring together scholars from around the globe to consider the problem of sexual violence and examine how law can help.
The project will require periodic modifications to pedestrian and vehicular traffic in the area.
The April conference explored children ensnared in violent situations, including armed conflict and liberation struggles.
Audrey Curelop '23L discusses a recent research trip to Tanzania as part of the International Human Rights Practicum.
The conference will be held via Zoom on February 16 from 10:00 am to 12:00 pm EST. 
Law professor Mark Drumbl recently provided expert testimony to the drafting committee tasked with developing a protocol to the United Nations Convention to Eliminate Racial Discrimination.
Prof. Markard will contribute to the law school’s comparative law seminar, which surveys German law and legal culture.
Dr. Christelle Molima Bameka presented her research related to the effects of colonialism on violent conflict in East Africa.
Prof. Mark Drumbl was interviewed on NPR’s All Things Considered to discuss the whether Russia's assaults on Ukraine constitute war crimes.
The symposium is scheduled for Friday, March 11 and will include a keynote address by Adrien Wing, Associate Dean for International and Comparative Law Programs and Bessie Dutton Murray Professor at University of Iowa College of Law.
The brief concerns the case of Dominic Ongwen, a Ugandan former child soldier and military commander, who is appealing a conviction for war crimes committed in the early 2000s.
A new book from W&L Law professor Johanna Bond pulls together decades of research to address identity discrimination.
The two-part blog interview covered a wide range of topics, including child soldiers and ecocide.
Russell Miller, J.B. Stombock Professor of Law at Washington and Lee University, is the recipient of a Humboldt Research Prize, one of Germany’s highest academic honors.
Prof. Mark Drumbl commented in the Washington Post on a new U.S. anti-doping law that could have consequences for sporting events around the globe.
Baluarte’s argument centers on the ability of stateless refugees to seek asylum in the United States and involves a client he has represented for many years, a man named Miliyon Ethiopis.
The June 24 hearing examined the issue of China’s legal responsibility for the global COVID-19 pandemic.
At the blog LawFare, Russ Miller examines a ruling by the German Constitutional Court limiting German espionage activities.
Should criminal legislation put in place to fight terrorism be used to fight the virus?
How will the international law principles established in the Trail Smelter Arbitration of the 1920s inform liability for the spread of COVID-19.
3L Kyle Hess reflects on the Global Corruption and Good Governance Practicum.
Law professor Mark Drumbl discussed why bombing cultural sites is considered a war crime.
Aljazeera relied on the expertise of Mark Drumbl for "explainers" on war crimes and genocide.
The Research Handbook on Child Soldiers brings to bear a unique array of perspectives to unpack the life-cycle of youth and militarization—from recruitment, to demobilization, and return to civilian life.
2L Anahita Mohtasham-Gharagozloo learned to react quickly to law and policy changes during her internship with the International Organisation to Preserve Human Rights.
Drumbl was interviewed on the BBC show "A History of Hate" on how propaganda fueled the Rwandan genocide.
This past Fall semester, a team of W&L Law students in the Criminal Tribunal Practicum class were given the unique opportunity to review and suggest legislative amendments to Ethiopia’s Anti-terrorism Proclamation.
This month, W&L Law hosted an round-table discussion on post-conflict justice.
The lecture, titled "Global Intersectionality and Women’s Human Rights," is scheduled for Wednesday, October 17 at 4 p.m. in the Millhiser Moot Court Room 
Kristen Mynes '19L spent her summer in Germany with Jones Day, getting a new perspective on the law and her career plans.
Emily Kendall '20L researched the impact of extractive mining practices on human rights and economic development.
This year's class focused on investigating the divorce process in Tanzania that often leaves women in poverty.
A group of W&L Law students traveled to Germany over spring break for an intensive week-long exploration of German law and legal culture.
Drumbl was in Beirut at the invitation of the Special Tribunal for Lebanon, established by the UN to investigate the assassination of Rafik Hariri.
Mark Drumbl, Class of 1975 Alumni Professor at Washington and Lee University School of Law, is involved in the legal content of a new book launched last month at the United Nations.
The Virginia Festival of the Book, the long-running literary celebration produced by the Virginia Foundation for the Humanities, has announced this year’s line-up, and a book edited by Washington and Lee law professor Russell Miller is among the featured works.
Law students taking part in the school’s Criminal Tribunal practicum hope that their work for client Bekele Gerba, will lead to his freedom.
Washington and Lee law professor Thomas H. Speedy Rice was one of six individuals and organizations honored at the International Anti-Corruption Excellence Awards in Geneva.
Prof. Drumbl drew from his research into child soldiers to deliver a talk titled "Tragic Perpetrators and Imperfect Victims".
As pro bono counsel, Doyle develops national and international pro bono projects focused on assisting immigrants, promoting women’s rights and combating domestic violence and human trafficking.
David Thompson '19L spent most of his summer working for Physicians for Human Rights–Israel, using international law to advocate for human rights standards.
Prof. David Baluarte, along with W&L law students, is working to help DACA beneficiaries and their families understand the immediate impact of the potential end of the program.
A USAID program brought a team of Ukrainian policy-makers and legal educators to W&L Law to explore the U.S. legal system.
Five W&L faculty members are featured in a new book from Cambridge Press about the NSA surveillance scandal that grew out of Edward Snowden’s now infamous disclosures.
The two-day event will feature a film screening of "Bridge of Spies" and a panel discussion with lawyers who have represented notorious clients.
Christopher Bruner, the William Donald Bain Family Professor of Corporate Law at W&L, delivered the keynote address at a conference titled “International Financial Services and Small States” on January 30, 2017.
Dr. Francisco Fiallos, Nicaragua's former Ambassador and Minister of Foreign Affairs, will present on international law and global issues.
Sebghatullah Ebrahimi was one of two Afghan law students who came to W&L Law in 2009 to complete a Masters in U.S. Law degree. Now he is back in the U.S. working for an international humanitarian organization.
The students are participating in an innovative practice-based course that engages them in research and analysis of international acts pertaining to good governance and corruption.
Immigrant Rights Clinic director David Baluarte will present at a hearing of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights to discuss the growth of asylum-free zones.
Brian Wagoner '18L, a graduate of UNC-Chapel Hill from Burlington, NC, worked this summer for the USAID Governance for Inclusive Growth Program in Hanoi, Vietnam.
Austin Woodside '18L is a graduate of the University of Tennessee at Knoxville. He spent the summer working for the International Legal Foundation in Nepal.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete International Law archive.