The Critical Language Scholarship Program funds a summer of overseas language and cultural immersion.
Newly promoted faculty members will present their research in a PechaKucha format on Jan. 30.
Markley will start their role in the Japanese Exchange and Teaching (JET) Program by early August 2023.
For W&L alumni Kevin Green ’07 and Amanda Green ’06, nature and nurture go hand-in-hand.
Hongchu Fu offers a look into the Yuan Dynasty under Mongol Rule in “Three Yuan Plays by Yang Zi.”
The Museums at W&L invites visitors to reflect on “Born of Fire: Contemporary Japanese Women Ceramic Artists,” on display through April 29.
The residency, co-hosted by W&L and VMI, includes workshops on March 23 and a concert on March 24.
This exhibit is free and open to the public, with a scheduled reception and lecture by curator and scholar Jacqueline Chao on March 8 at 5 p.m.
Lozinskaya, a 2022 graduate, will receive a master’s degree in global affairs from Tsinghua University in China.
The Weinstein Scholar annual program invited students to take a culinary trip around the world without leaving the Washington and Lee campus.
Six undergraduate students received Critical Language Scholarships, which will provide them the opportunity to study language intensively during summer 2022.
Approximately 70% of students participate in an abroad program during their time at W&L.
Amelia Lancaster '22 has used her W&L experience to explore a number of interests, ultimately finding a passion in museum studies and Chinese that has allowed her to co-curate a museum exhibition on campus.
John Adekola ’24 sees his role with Phonathon as a chance to make a difference at W&L.
A deer figure on display in a new Watson Galleries exhibit, "Auspicious Animals," is an example of the Chinese practice of blending European tastes with encoded symbolic meaning.
Washington and Lee University’s Office of Inclusion and Engagement recently released a video featuring members of W&L’s Asian and Pacific Islander community, calling on the world to notice, and end, incidents of hate.
Debris from the aftermath of the Hiroshima bombing found its way to W&L’s Special Collections, where it heightened one class’s understanding of a powerful Japanese novel.  
When her Critical Language Scholarship to China went virtual because of COVID, Kisker '21 got a six-week sampler of the country and its language through her computer screen.
Garfinkel will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton
Professor Yumiko Naito’s Spring Term class, Cool Japan: Manga, Business Etiquette, Language and Culture, approaches learning in a delicious and hands-on way.
Hester will participate in an intensive eight-week Chinese language course at Shaanxi Normal University.
Our favorite term is well underway! Here is a glimpse inside some of the many fascinating courses being taught off-campus this year.
Hiromasa says her time at Washington and Lee and various volunteer opportunities she has participated in have prepared her for this next step in her educational journey.
Thanks to an exchange program funded by the Japanese government, a group of W&L students spent Washington Break immersed in the culture of Japan—and welcomed Kanazawa University students to W&L one month later.
Washington Break at W&L is about exploration, whether that discovery involves Texas mountaintops, Japanese culture or career opportunities in New York.
W&L's Chanoyu Tea Society will host their annual Martin Luther King, Jr. tea ceremony on Jan. 21
This elegant bowl, which is part of W&L's Reeves Collection, can be traced back to the Opium War of 1839-1842.
Dr. Ling-ting Chiu, a Fulbright Scholar and assistant professor of history at Soochow University in Taiwan, spent the summer at Washington and Lee studying the works of former W&L professor and artist Professor I-Hsiung Ju.
The conference brings more than 65 students to Lexington from Aug. 12-17 and includes two public events.
Elizabeth McDonald heads to Japan, Emily Austin to Indonesia and Riley Ries to Kyrgyzstan.
The title of Bello’s talk is: “A Bug-eyed View of Environmental History.”
The interactive exhibit will be on display in Staniar Gallery through March 17.
There will be three seatings on Mar. 3 at 1 p.m., 1:30 p.m. and 2 p.m. and tickets are free.
Sima Sharma ’18 used her time at W&L to explore her passion for the world and its various cultures through volunteering and study abroad.
W&L's Chanoyu Tea Society will host their second annual Martin Luther King, Jr. tea ceremony on Jan. 15
Lee Sommerfeldt '18 found a home away from home in a honky-tonk in the heart of Tokyo.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Xiaoxia Yin '20 and Sesha Carrier '20 to study traditional folk singing in China.
Steven Yeung '17 has been in classrooms from Lexington to Ghana to Shanghai and back — and now plans to run a classroom in Japan.
JASC is a student-exchange program, initiated in 1934 by university students concerned by the breakdown of bilateral relations prior to World War II.
Sierra Noland and Tara Cooper received Critical Language Scholarships sponsored by the U.S. Department of State.
Guen splits his time between hiking the mountains of Rockbridge and traveling the world.
Tyler Grant ’12, a graduate of Washington and Lee University and the University of Virginia School of Law, is a regular editorial contributor to several national publications.
LaPointe, who says his personal motto is "being genuine goes a long way," is a world traveler, professional debater, and Johnson Scholar.
Colonel Chris Goff, U.S. Marine liaison to the Japan Self Defense Forces, will speak on “Japan and East Asian Security Challenges.”
For World Thinking Day, W&L's foreign language teaching assistants led local Girl Scouts in a variety of internationally themed activities.
In the first installment of our new series, Ron Fuchs tells the story behind a 4,000-year-old jar in Watson Pavilion.
W&L's Chanoyu Tea Society will host a Martin Luther King Jr. tea ceremony on Jan. 16, 2017 in the Senshin'an Tea Room, Watson Pavilion.
Washington and Lee University this year welcomes seven foreign language teaching assistants.
Michika Nakada is one of seven foreign language teaching assistants at W&L this year.
Mengsu Kong is one of seven foreign languaga teaching assistants on the W&L campus this year.
Steven Yeung, who turned 21 in June, was one of the youngest members of the Virginia delegation — and one of the youngest delegates nationwide — at the Democratic National Convention in July.
Meet Jordan LaPointe '17, an East Asian Languages and Literatures major with a sense of adventure. A lifelong dream comes true in Japan.
Studying and Teaching the Japanese Way of Tea.
Rising senior Steven Yeung was one of the youngest members of the Virginia delegation — and one of the youngest delegates nationwide — at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia.
"It is the strength of community and society that really makes W&L more than simply another great university."
"I will always remember my time at Washington and Lee because it has helped me to grow and realize my interests."
"At W&L you'll find the support to pursue anything."
 Looking for older stories? See the complete East Asian Languages and Literatures archive.