The opportunity to take a wide variety of classes has expanded Kramer's horizons.
Nelson will deliver a lecture on “Where Math Meets Imagination” on March 19.
Hart’s violin recital will be held on March 17 at 3 p.m.
The article focuses on the geology and topology behind optimal shapes.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Five-Star Distinguished Alumni Award winners
Newly promoted faculty members will present their research in a PechaKucha format on Jan. 30.
Kumudu Gamage will use the funds for professional development and summer research.
The mathematics professor discusses the differences between various necktie knots.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Young Alumni Award winners
W&L’s Summer Research Scholars program gives students hands-on experience in collaborative research with faculty mentors.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Alumni Award winners
McRae’s presentation “Waiting for Gödel” will be held in Chavis Hall on March 22.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Five-Star Distinguished Alumni Awards winners
Etter plans to attend graduate school and pursue a career in mathematics.
Cory Colbert, assistant professor of mathematics at W&L, will present on this year’s International Mathematical Union’s Fields Medal on Wednesday, Nov. 16.
Washington and Lee University is proud to announce this year's Distinguished Young Alumni Award winners
These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university. 
Diwesh Kumar ’24 is developing investment banking expertise at his summer internship at Boxwood Partners in Richmond, Virginia. 
Kingwill has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Uzbekistan. He will depart in September 2022 for his 10-month program. 
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
The English Teaching Assistantship provides Cones a stipend to teach English to students in Bulgaria and lead cultural exchange activities.
Larsen will spend the next academic year studying at the Budapest Semesters in Mathematics and participating in a research group at the Alfréd Rényi Institute of Mathematics.
She will earn her master’s in digital health before attending medical school.
On May 23, Chad Thomas’21 will present a graduation piano recital featuring George Gershwin’s monumental work, “Rhapsody in Blue,” and other pieces.
Rafay Hassan '22 was looking for a liberal arts university that would give him individualized attention and put his critical thinking skills to the test. He found that and more at W&L. 
Each scholar is awarded $7,500 to support undergraduate research in their junior or senior year.
One of Washington and Lee's new faculty members for 2020-21 is mathematics professor Sybil Prince Nelson, a 2001 graduate of W&L.
Cory Colbert was a recent "Honoree of the Day" on a website that honors Black scholars in the mathematical sciences.
When her Critical Language Scholarship to China went virtual because of COVID, Kisker '21 got a six-week sampler of the country and its language through her computer screen.
Jerónimo Reyes '21 says he is so immensely grateful for the gifts in his life, including a QuestBridge scholarship to W&L, that he wants to become a doctor and devote his career to helping others. 
Matt Bartini ’12 offers favorite scenes of W&L on his custom shirts.
Peccie’s award is part of ODK’s 2020 General Russell E. Dougherty National Leader of the Year Competition.
Xinxian Wang '21, a student at Washington and Lee University, has won a $10,000 Davis Projects for Peace grant.
Margaret Kallus ’19 will be the second W&L alumna to join a team of economists at the Harvard University research institute, Opportunity Insights.
The title of Wayne Dymacek’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is “My Life and Times with Dots and Lines.”
Mathematics professor Elizabeth Denne helped design one of the Fleet Museum's most popular exhibits yet.
O’Neil’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled, “How Big Data Promotes Inequality and Threatens Democracy.” 
Sharp taught at W&L from 1983-1991.
Working in South Africa gave Will Hardage '20 a chance to combine his economics major and his poverty studies minor.
Xinxian Wang '21 was able to marry two interests in an internship with The Visual Arts Center in Richmond.
With the support of teammates, professors and friends, Nicholas George '18 was able to balance two majors and a spot on the basketball team.
As she prepares to work for the Equality of Opportunity Project, Amanda Wahlers '18 is grateful for the education, opportunities and research experience she has had in Lexington.
ODK inducted four honorary and seven student initiates
Coralie Chu '18 has always been a performer, but W&L helped her discover confidence both on and off the stage.
Beck is the 22nd General to receive the distinction over the last 15 years.
Andrew Mah ’18 has spent his undergraduate career studying the circadian rhythms of spiders.  
John Bovay ’07, an assistant professor in the Department of Agricultural and Resource Economics at the University of Connecticut, focuses on the economics of food and agricultural policy
Soon Ho Kwon '17 and Claire Meyers '18 spent the summer looking at how Corporate Social Responsibility plays a role in the bottom line.
Anukriti Shrestha '19 has found an intersection of mathematics, computer science and research — all in the heart of Lexington.
Twelve Class of 2021 students visited W&L for a five-week Advanced Research Cohort program that allowed them to dabble in STEM projects and establish quality relationships.
Andre Zeromski '20 has been selected from a group of finalists for the Class of 2020 of the prestigious Kemper Scholars Program.
The Roanoke Times profiled graduating senior Matt Carl in today's commencement story.
Stephen Mitchell '17 credits students, alumni, and W&L academics for helping him to find the right career path.
Dancer, choreographer, musician, mathematician: Elliot Emadian '17 has many roles, both on and off the stage. 
Meet Andrew Mah ‘18, an accomplished mathematician who found an unlikely passion - spiders!
MacArthur Fellow Jeff Weeks, a geometer, cosmologist and educator, will speak about “The Shape of Space.”
Meet Ryder Babik '19, a student who enjoys college as much as he enjoys helping others apply to college.
Four W&L faculty will talk about their experiences with Open Access publishing, both from the editorial and authorial perspectives, on Oct. 24 from 4:30–5:30 p.m.
American students traveled abroad with international students for summer projects they created together. .
12 exceptional students experience a unique summer program aimed at increasing retention in STEM majors.
Engineering major Walker Brand '18 gets a taste of the defense industry at Hardwire Armor Systems.
"The relationships I have made and strengthened while volunteering over the course of my time in Lexington are more important to me than I could have imagined."
Mike Wilner '13 is on the fast track as a young entrepreneur.
Mathematics major Matthew Kiser '16 interns at the recruiting software company Jobscience in San Fransisco.
Chemistry major Levi Warring interns with NASA.
Charlotte Sisk spent the summer working as a project management intern for the Saatchi & Saatchi global communications and advertising agency network in New York City.
Johnson Opportunity Grant winner connects interests in economics and art history at famed auction house.
Senior Xiaoxiang Yang gets a taste of the consulting world with The Brattle Group.
Azmain Amin '17 and Mina Shnoudah '17 look to automate testing of web services.
"My W&L experience is defined by a multitude of activities, academics, and opportunities."
Computer science and mathematics major Jamie White interns as a software developer at Amazon.com.
"At W&L you learn so much more in your interactions with others than what you see in the classroom."
Abby Block '17 interns for the Cleveland Clinic.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Mathematics archive.