These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
First-year earth and environmental science professor co-authored a paper titled “Monogenetic volcanoes as windows into transcrustal mush.”
The Department of Earth and Environmental Geoscience provides students with the chance to expand their learning beyond the classroom by attending top national conferences.
Professor Lisa Greer has been taking students to Belize since 2011 to study the thriving reef corals located there.
Elizabeth Knapp serves as director of the Johnson Program and professor of earth and environmental geoscience.
Karena Gill is a visiting assistant professor of earth and environmental geoscience. 
Karena Gill handles all aspects of the event slated to be held Sept. 27-30 in Washington, D.C.
Mengying Liu will use the funds to research high-throughput crystallographic mapping in the United Kingdom.
Margaret Anne Hinkle is an assistant professor of earth and environmental geoscience.
Seay has been selected for the Goldwater Scholarship to support a research career in science, mathematics and engineering, and also earned the Udall Scholarship in the environmental category.
Stonegate Guesthouse, recently purchased and renovated by Derek Hutton ’93, is a featured Lexington landmark of the Garden Club of Virginia’s 90th annual event.
Assistant Professor Margaret Anne Hinkle’s article is titled “Impacts of Sulfonic Acids on Fungal Manganese Oxide Production.”
CBL’s new initiative is an opportunity for faculty development, student collaboration and deepening partnerships with the surrounding community.
Professor Lisa Greer’s article focuses on the survival of coral reefs in the Caribbean.
Villante, a geoscientist in Iceland, will discuss the current state of the climate technology sector on Feb. 6.
The upcoming screening is the second installment in the DeLaney Center's ongoing film series.
David Harbor to work on collaborative project to describe and model the erosion process known as “plucking.”
Dinner attendees are invited to sample an indigenous menu during a guided discussion on Nov. 14.
Bryan credits W&L for teaching him how to approach the complex problems he has tackled throughout his multi-faceted career.
McKibben will present a public lecture on Sept. 26 at 5:30 p.m.
A passionate conservationist, Niquole Esters ’04 has crafted complex approaches encompassing multiple countries to improve ocean health and benefit local communities.
Marcus Payne '25 is spending his summer doing geology research with Professor of Earth and Environmental Geoscience Jeffrey Rahl.
After a successful summer internship in 2021, W&L's Rett Daugbjerg '22 is now working for JLL's Capital Markets group in Atlanta, Georgia. 
Professor Eva Lyon published an article in Global Change Biology.
Young alumnus Alden Schade shares why he gives back to W&L.
W&L seniors Will Gentry and Gray Carlton started Lexington Harvest Haul to deliver local food to consumers. They’re now looking to sell the successful business before they leave Lexington after graduation.
In a new episode of "After Class," W&L’s Lifelong Learning podcast, Elizabeth Knapp, geology professor and director of the Johnson Program in Leadership and Integrity, discusses her love of geology and the impact of the Johnson Program.
Washington and Lee University’s Office of Inclusion and Engagement recently released a video featuring members of W&L’s Asian and Pacific Islander community, calling on the world to notice, and end, incidents of hate.
Policies adopted to combat COVID-19 led to novel changes in W&L's energy use in 2020.
   According to a study by W&L’s Lisa Greer, Coral Gardens Reef in Belize remains a refuge for Acropora spp. coral despite widespread devastation in other areas of the western North Atlantic Ocean/Caribbean Sea.
He taught at W&L from 1957 to 2001.
Chaisson’s lecture, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Cosmic Evolution.”
This summer, Ginny Johnson '20 served as a peer mentor to nine rising sophomores as part of the Keck Geology Consortium trip to Belize, where Professor Lisa Greer continued her research project into the staghorn coral population.
This summer, geology and environmental science major Chantal Iosso ’20 is studying the effects of the Jordan's Point Dam removal on the Maury River.
After learning about natural hazards and their impact on society, students in this geology course took a mind-blowing field trip to Mount St. Helens.
Our favorite term is well underway! Here is a glimpse inside some of the many fascinating courses being taught off-campus this year.
The Geology and Archaeology departments collaborated with W&L's Outing Club to create a fun, educational hike just a short drive from Lexington.
Becoming a part of the Outing Club at Washington and Lee completely changed Matt Richards's college experience. "My time with the Outing Club has without a doubt had the biggest impact on my time here," he said.
The title of Gary Staab’s presentation is “Digital Dinosaurs: Fleshing out the Past." 
Steven Jones ’69 helps his alma mater plan for the future.
As a senior ecologist with Trihydro Corp., Jana Heisler White '98 works on environmental protection and remediation.
Ed Spencer ’53, who has made plans to support a scholarship fund at W&L, is still a cornerstone of the university 17 years after his retirement.
Jeffrey Rahl, professor of geology at Washington and Lee University, has received a grant from the National Science Foundation. 
Professor David Harbor and his Spring Term class chased particles of sand from the Blue Ridge Mountains to the Barrier Islands and the high plains of Utah.
The NSF only funds about 11,000 of the 40,000 proposals it receives annually for research, education and training projects. 
Hermione Wang '18 has spent so much time in Lenfest that people jokingly ask her if she lives there. Her job? Making sure that the show always goes on.
Women in Technology and Science gives girls from local middle and elementary schools an opportunity to perform science experiments in all disciplines during the academic year.
As a geology summer research assistant in Crete, Greece, no two days were the same for Chantal Iosso '20.
Professors share the inspiration for their first-year seminars, and what they hope students will take away.
Piotr Krzywiec will give a lecture on “Geology in Central Europe – How It All Started: The Early (XVI – XVII Cent.) Development of Earth Sciences in Central Europe."
Over the summer, students worked with Professor Robert Humston to examine the potential effects of smallmouth bass on native brook trout populations in the Virginia watershed.
Liz Todd '19 was able to extend her Spring Term Abroad and spend the summer in Brazil, where she worked for an environmental agency.
Twelve Class of 2021 students visited W&L for a five-week Advanced Research Cohort program that allowed them to dabble in STEM projects and establish quality relationships.
Josh Fox '19 has spent his summer conducting geology research on campus and in Crete, Greece, with Professor Jeff Rahl.
W&L senior John Dannehl has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain.
Meet Shlomo Honig ‘18, whose day consists of analyzing rocks, protecting the environment, and ultimate frisbee
Meet Harry Lustig ‘17, a scholar-explorer who’s hiked everywhere from the Blue Ridge to Alaska.
Meet Olivia Sisson, a senior who has wanted to be an artist since she was little - but didn’t know how - about her experience on the Humanities Career Trip to New York.
Dan Claroni spent the summer working on unmanned aerial vehicles used to monitor gas emissions in Iceland.
A double major in English and geology, plus a curiosity about the world around him, led Hanson to a career as a freelance writer, photographer and videographer. He is the author of "Breaking Through Concrete: Building an Urban Farm Revival" and producer of the documentary film "Who Owns the Water."
When the floodwaters from the August storms in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, finally receded, James McCullum was one of many volunteers to head to the devastated region. A member of the Maryland-based Ananda Marga Universal Relief Team, he connected with the St. Bernard Project to help gut homes damaged by the flooding.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Franklin Wolfe '16 Travels to Europe to Gather Data for 3D Geologic Models.
Geology major Dan Claroni '17 interns for the Icelandic Meteorological Office in Reykjavík.
Kendrick Award winner Linda Gaida '16 reflects on her experience in the Gila Wilderness of New Mexico.
"W&L manages to be a catalyst for adventure while still offering that 'welcome home' feeling."
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Earth and Environmental Geoscience archive.