Due to site preparation work for the new Lindley Center for Student Wellness, sections of East Denny Circle will be closed between 7 a.m. and 8 p.m. Monday through Friday, through April 19. Please continue to use an alternate route during this time.
Wythe Whiting is a professor of cognitive and behavioral science.
Rachel Hubbard is the Communication and Marketing Coordinator and has worked at W&L Law since February 2017.
These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university.
New Williams School construction and Elrod Commons Phase 2 renovations both remain on schedule, while the new Lindley Center for Student Wellness will break ground soon.
Ronda Bryant serves as associate dean of students.
The state-of-the-art facility will be the new home of the Student Health Center and University Counseling Services.
Register TODAY for GRILLING 101, April 17 @ 4pm
Tim Davis from TIAA will be here on April 18, 2024. 
Health Advocate webinar: Caring for Caregivers
Health Advocate Webinar: Caring for Caregivers
34th Employee Recognition Banquet
Live Well W&L 5K Fun Run/Walk
RAIN DATE: Live Well W&L 5K Fun Run/Walk
Patrick Abelon from SageView will be here on May 1st. 
Tim Davis from TIAA will be here on May 2, 2024.  
Tim Davis from TIAA will be here on May 16, 2024.
Mental Health Webinar May 16th: Register today!
Mental Health Webinar by HealthAdvocate, May 16
The senior thesis exhibition will be on view April 1-12.
The campus community will promote sustainability and environmental advocacy with various events throughout the month of April.
The April 4 showcase is hosted by W&L’s Connolly Center for Entrepreneurship.
Lynch’s soprano recital will be held on April 6 at 8 p.m.
The play, written by Professor Chris Gavaler, will be performed at 7 p.m. on April 6 in Stackhouse Theater. 
The April 6 gathering marks the restoration of “The Foundation” on the university’s campus, originally part of the historic Liberty Hall Academy property.
Professor Kish Parella on Why Executives Should Care about International Law
Erin Hughes ‘21 Earns Prestigious Coaching Recognition
Two Williams School Faculty Members Co-Author Journal Article
Anthropology Professor Publishes Essay in Online Publication
Scott Boylan to Receive Award from the American Accounting Association
W&L English Professor Publishes New Book
W&L’s Leslie Frederick to Present at the 2024 AACSB Assessment and AoL Conference in New York City
Sarah Haan Publishes “Voting Rights in Corporate Governance” in the Southern California Law Review
Karen Woody Publishes “Corporate Crime and Cooperation” in The Business Lawyer
Professor Sarah Haan on the False Narrative of Shareholder Passivity
W&L Music Professor Elected President of the College Orchestra Directors Association
W&L Arabic Professor Publishes Paper in International Peer-Reviewed University Journal
Read the latest announcements from around campus and/or create your own.
View previews editions of the weekly employee newsletter.