Phone: 540-458-8548
Email: woodrc@wlu.edu
Office: 442 Lewis Hall
R. Craig Wood
Higher Education Practicum (with Gilbert E. Schill, Jr.)
BA, University of Virginia
MEd, University of Virginia
JD, Washington and Lee University
Wood is a Partner with McGuireWoods in Charlottesville, Virginia. He has taken more than 100 cases to trial in the areas of management-side employment, education, commercial and professional liability law. He served as the office managing partner in McGuireWoods' Charlottesville office from 2000-2009 and as head of the Charlottesville office litigation department from 1990-2000. His peer reviews include an AV rating in Martindale Hubbell and inclusion in The Best Lawyers in America every year since 1993.
Craig regularly defends businesses, higher education institutions and school boards in a variety of employment and regulatory compliance matters. He conducts training on union avoidance, manages union campaigns for employers, and handles labor disputes. He tries cases in state and federal courts in Virginia, and handles appeals in the Virginia and U.S. Supreme Courts, and the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals. He regularly handles employment matters before the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Department of Labor, and other state and federal agencies.
Craig is a highly regarded lecturer and author. He regularly speaks at the annual meetings of the National School Boards Association, the Education Law Association, the Local Government Attorneys of Virginia and the National Federation of High School Athletic Associations, and lectures on litigation and ethics matters for Virginia CLE and other state and national organizations. Additionally, Craig has spoken before the Virginia Bar Association, the Governor's Conference on Education Law, and the Council of Independent Colleges of Virginia. He teaches Trial Advocacy at the University of Virginia School of Law, Higher Education Law at Washington and Lee Law School, and is on the faculty of the National Trial Advocacy College. He has taught legal ethics for the professionalism courses of the Virginia State Bar.