Parents and families are a vital part of the W&L community. The resources on this page will keep you up to date on what's happening in Lexington, and to provide quick access to information that will help your student thrive throughout their four years on campus.



See What's Happening on Campus
Check out upcoming events, the latest photos from Lexington, and what students are up to with the resources below.
Families



Stay Connected
This publication is designed to communicate the latest news for parents and families. The monthly newsletter complements other university channels to help keep families informed about life on campus.
Student Success
W&L's First-Year Experience Program helps new students to acclimate to college life as they develop intellectually, emotionally, and socially.




Featured
Events

We look forward to seeing you on campus--and encourage you to connect with other W&L parents and alumni in your hometown.

Law: May 10, 2024 || Undergraduate: May 30, 2024

Commencement
The 169th commencement ceremony for the law school will take place Friday, May 10, at 10 a.m. on the Front Lawn. The 237th undergraduate commencement will take place Thursday, May 30, at 10 a.m. on the Front Lawn. The Baccalaureate Service will occur Wednesday, May 29, at 10 a.m., also on the Front Lawn. Both commencement ceremonies will be broadcast live online.

Oct. 4 - 6, 2024

Parents and Family Weekend
The university has identified the dates for the next Parents and Family Weekend: Oct. 4 - 6, 2024. Registration and other information about the weekend will be shared well in advance of the event. We hope you can join us on campus!

Chapter Events

In Your City
W&L has over 75 alumni chapters in the U.S. and abroad. From Summer Send-Off parties for new students to Welcome to the City events for recent graduates, parents are invited to attend local chapter events as part of the W&L community.


Student Affairs
Staff

W&L is a close-knit community, and most students will get to know the staff within the Division of Student Affairs, which works with all aspects of student life, both inside and outside the classroom.
Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students
Sidney oversees the majority of student life and student services functions at W&L, collaborating with various constituents in order to meet the developmental needs of our students.
Dean of Student Life
David assists with the overall management and direction for numerous departments and programs in the Division of Student Affairs, including the Class Deans, Residential Life, First-Year Experience, Leadership Development, Student Activities and Outdoor Recreation.
Dean for Diversity, Inclusion and Student Engagement
Tammy is responsible for providing leadership and vision for student diversity and inclusion programming, services and initiatives within the division of Students Affairs.


Inclusion and Engagement at W&L



Associate Dean of Students and Dean for First-Year Experience
Jason is a resource for new undergraduates from the time they commit to W&L to the time they begin their sophomore year.
Associate Dean of Students
Ronda serves as the primary resource for first-years. She brings 20 years of professional experience in a number of areas, including advising and academic support.
Assistant Dean of Students
Kim Hodge serves as an Assistant Dean of Students.
Assistant Dean of Students and Dean of Sophomores
Kyle McCoil serves as the primary resource for sophomores and for transfer students. In addition to his role as an assistant class dean, he serves as the primary adviser for W&L’s Interfraternity Council and National Pan-Hellenic Council.
Associate Dean of Students and Dean of Juniors and Seniors
Megan serves as the primary resource for juniors, seniors, and transfer students, developing partnerships and offering programs and resource referrals that will complement and enhance their college experience. In addition to her work as a class dean, she serves as co-director of the AIM initiative and co-adviser to the LEAD Program.
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement
© Copyright 2024 Washington & Lee