Hundreds of W&L students, faculty and staff came together to witness the astronomical event.
Washington and Lee’s club squash team brings together players from all levels and has quickly risen the ranks in the collegiate competition circuit.
University Provost Lena Hill addressed new members of ODK during their spring induction ceremony.
Washington and Lee's Generals Activities Board has taken a dynamic approach to bringing the student body together through live music.
The Critical Language Scholarship Program funds a summer of overseas language and cultural immersion.
Read the story »
These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university.
New Williams School construction and Elrod Commons Phase 2 renovations both remain on schedule, while the new Lindley Center for Student Wellness will break ground soon.
The state-of-the-art facility will be the new home of the Student Health Center and University Counseling Services.
The third-year assistant women's basketball coach was named to the WBCA Thirty Under 30 List.
The campus community will promote sustainability and environmental advocacy with various events throughout the month of April.
Starting in July, Bishop will participate in a year-long cultural immersion program in Germany.
The former executive director of ArtPower at the University of California, San Diego will begin his new role in July.
Bright Frimpong and Keri Larson teamed with two others to produce a paper on crowdfunding that was featured in the Journal of Business Venturing Insights.
Alumni enjoyed one another's company and a variety of weekend festivities.
Hafsa Oubou’s essay “Churches Can, Mosques Can’t” appears in the January edition of Canopy Forum.
The second annual Philanthropy Education Week highlighted the impact donations have on the undergraduate experience.
W&L’s Phi Beta Kappa chapter named the Phi Beta Kappa J. Brown Goehring Sophomore Award in his honor.
Read more stories »
Wythe Whiting is a professor of cognitive and behavioral science.
Scott’s passion for the environment carries over from the classroom to opportunities on campus and beyond.
Rachel Hubbard is the Communication and Marketing Coordinator and has worked at W&L Law since February 2017.
Ronda Bryant serves as associate dean of students.
The opportunity to take a wide variety of classes has expanded Kramer's horizons.
Laura Lemon '16 serves as assistant university editor within the Office of Communications and Public Affairs
Leading Campus Kitchen, a student-run organization focused on addressing food insecurity, has been a rewarding experience.
Joshua Fairfield is the William Bain Family Professor of Law and the Director of AI Legal Innovation Strategy at W&L Law School. 
Read more stories »