Approved By: President


Issued: 1/1/1972
					

Responsible Office: President


Related Policies:

In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Virginia Human Rights Act, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, military status, genetic information, or any other protected class under the law in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment.
This policy applies to all Washington and Lee University students, faculty, staff, and volunteers, as well as all visitors to campus (including vendors, contractors, visiting athletes, alumni, parents and guests of students, etc.).
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Virginia Human Rights Act, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, military status, genetic information, or any other protected class under the law in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to Lauren E. Kozak, Title IX Coordinator, Elrod Commons 237, (540) 458-4055, kozakl@wlu.edu, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws.
The Coordinator has designated the following Title IX Assistant Coordinators:
Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education.

This policy has not yet been revised.
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement