September 22-23, 2023
                    



This year’s Alumni Volunteer Weekend, September 22 - 23, will focus on what’s happening now in the W&L community. We’ll bring you up to date on our plans for this year’s engagement and stewardship efforts and look forward to your valuable input. 
You are legends in W&L’s alumni volunteer program, and your continued support of the university will help build the future. Thanks for all you do!
Friday, September 22
Pre-event Activities - 8:30 a.m. - 3:30 p.m.
University Museums and Galleries are open for drop-in visits:University Chapel: 10 a.m. - 5 p.m. (Friday and Saturday)Reeves Museum of Ceramics: 10 a.m. - 5 p.m (Friday and Saturday)McCarthy Gallery in Holekamp Hall: 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. (Friday)
Main Programming Begins
Saturday, September 23
Annual Fund/Reunion Giving - Law Classroom E
Chapter Leaders - Law Classroom F
Young Alumni - Annual Fund/Reunion Giving - Law Classroom G
Regarding travel and hotels, we ask that you be responsible for your travel and lodging arrangements, but once you are here, you will be our guest and all meals will be included during the programming.
Looking for a place to stay for the weekend? Here is a rather exhaustive list of lodging options, from hotels to B&Bs.
Dress for the weekend is casual. For the Friday reception, you may be most comfortable in business casual attire. We encourage dressing in layers, and packing a jacket.
Please contact us with questions about the weekend:
Giving 
Office of University Development
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement
© Copyright 2024 Washington & Lee