As a donor, your support has a great impact on the W&L community. The impact of your gifts is not simply the tangible resources you provide to help carry out W&L's mission. Your support offers inspiration to the campus community in so many areas.
Thank you for your generosity. You have honored Washington and Lee with your gifts, and it honors you in return.



Annual Impact Report for Donors
The Annual Impact Report is a new way of celebrating the many people who made gifts to W&L during the prior fiscal year (July 1 - June 30) as well as thanking the volunteers who helped support the university.



Class Agent and Reunion Awards
Class Agent and Reunion trophies recognize the volunteers and classes whose giving efforts are outstanding in a variety of ways.



Donor Recognition Societies
W&L's giving societies celebrate our dedicated donors.



Honored Benefactors
W&L honors its most generous donors by including their name on the Honored Benefactors Wall in Washington Hall. Each donor has contributed at least $1 million to W&L.



Endowed Funds
Washington and Lee's endowed funds ensure talented students have access to a W&L education, provide faculty with opportunities for research and academic enrichment, support university programs so that they thrive, and sustain the beauty of the historic campus.
Giving 
Office of University Development

Your Gift
Matters

The numbers say it all. Thank your for contributing to W&L's second-highest single-year gift total.



In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement
© Copyright 2024 Washington & Lee