We seek academically talented, curious and engaged students from around the world. Our student body represents 49 states and 47 countries of citizenship, who are not only academically driven, but leaders in their schools and communities, dedicated to having an impact on those around them.
We are committed to making the W&L experience affordable through generous need and merit-based financial aid programs. That's why W&L typically awards more than $50 million in need-based financial aid each year and provides 100 percent of a student’s demonstrated financial need through grants, scholarships and campus work. As part of our commitment, students are not asked to assume debt by taking out loans as part of their financial aid award.


                                Visit
                            

                                Financial Aid
                            

                                Apply
                            

Admissions & Aid



Come See Us!
A visit to campus can go a long way to learning whether W&L is right for you. If you are unable to join us in Lexington, we invite you to take advantage of the virtual resources to explore our campus and opportunities.
Within Reach
We want a W&L education to be available to all applicants. W&L typically awards more than $49 million in financial aid each year, covering 100% of a student’s demonstrated financial need through grants and scholarships.






Apply
We hope to make your application to Washington and Lee as straightforward and transparent as possible. Learn more about our application requirements and deadlines.
SCOTUS
From a statement by President Dudley on June 29: "We will continue to work to attract and support an increasingly diverse community at W&L while being fully compliant with the reinterpreted law."



The opportunities students have at Washington and Lee allow them to grow as scholars, compete as athletes, evolve as leaders, succeed in their careers and apply their skills to lead lives of consequence.
Virtual Tour


                                Visit
                            

                                Request More Information
                            

                                How to Apply
                            

In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement
© Copyright 2024 Washington & Lee