Why
W&L

Washington and Lee University is a small liberal arts college nestled in the Virginia mountains. We are known for our personal and engaging undergraduate experience and highly regarded School of Law.



W&L Advantage
Founded in 1749, W&L is the 9th oldest college in the United States, even older than the U.S. Constitution.
Today, W&L is a top-ranked liberal arts university that continues to build on its innovative and flexible approach to education. W&L’s motto, “Not unmindful of the future,” reflects our commitment to an education that is relevant to the 21st century. 



Making College Affordable
We are committed to meeting 100% of student financial need.
Every year, W&L awards about $53 million in institutional grants in addition to federal and state awards. And because of the strength of our need-based aid, only a fraction of families choose to take out optional loans. 



Engaged Community
We are a close-knit, residential campus where students build lifelong friendships by living on campus, working and studying together, participating in clubs and activities, and serving the community.
A community which is strengthened by the student-run Honor System, and the commitment students make not to lie, cheat, steal or otherwise violate the trust of the community. 



Pool of Opportunities
Our size, resources and commitment to innovation mean students have access to faculty and resources from day one.
One of the hallmarks of the W&L experience is the accessibility of faculty. Every class is taught by a faculty member who often becomes a mentor, colleague and champion, pushing students to raise the bar. 



Adventure-Ready Location
Our campus is about 50 miles from Roanoke, 140 miles from the state capital of Richmond, and 180 miles from the national capital of Washington, D.C.
Lexington — and the adventure-ready landscape that surrounds it — become such a part of students’ lives that graduates often return to visit long after their college days are behind them.


                                Undergraduate Experience
                            

                                Graduate School of Law
                            


Scene
on Campus

Scene on Campus is a frequently updated collection of candid photos highlighting W&L campus life.


                                View the Scene on Campus Archive
                            


The Heart
Of W&L

We have a long tradition of educating smart, ambitious students who have the ability and the desire to make a difference in the world.



Experiential Education

Experiential Education at W&L



                                    Campus Garden
                                    









The university’s Campus Garden is a dedicated space growing organic produce for both the campus and local community.



Global Education

Study Abroad



                                    Read Laurie's Story
                                    









Laurie Jones is grateful for her opportunity to study in Ireland and Jordan through the Peace and Conflict Program.



Undergraduate Research

Research at W&L



                                    Read AJ’s Story
                                    









AJ Mabaka ’22 plans to attend a graduate program in marine science and conservation policy.



Distinctively W&L

Distinctive Programming



                                    Read Jackson’s Story
                                    









In addition to pursuing a double major, Jackson Hotchkiss ’24 is a competitive cycler.
Virtual Tour

From
The Columns

Read The Columns for W&L stories on campus and around the world.
View All Stories



Student Organization Spotlight: GAB
Washington and Lee's Generals Activities Board has taken a dynamic approach to bringing the student body together through live music.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





W&L Student Performs at Havana Jazz Festival
A meeting with a Broadway legend allowed engineering major Zaria Daniels ’26 to take her vocal talents to Cuba.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Exploring Careers in the Big Apple
W&L's Office of Career and Professional Development gave students the opportunity to network and explore potential career paths over Washington Break.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





W&L Podcast Releases New Episode Featuring Wythe Whiting
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join W&L faculty to discuss their teaching, research and passion projects.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Alex Miller Named Next Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students at Washington and Lee
Miller, whose appointment is effective July 1, joined Denison as vice president of student life in 2020 and has over 20 years of experience in higher education as a student affairs professional. 


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Voices from the Generals
The Harte Center for Teaching and Learning is bringing student voices to a new podcast designed to share perspectives on transitioning to college life.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





W&L’s Librarians Recommended Library Finds
Washington and Lee’s library staff share their recommendations for your next trip to the University Library.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





An Extraordinary Combination
Laura Murambadoro ’26 brings varied interests, a collaborative leadership style and a passion for community engagement to W&L’s campus.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





W&L After Class Podcast Begins its Fifth Season
“W&L After Class,” now entering its fifth season, invites listeners to join conversations with W&L’s expert faculty about their teaching, research and passion projects.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Alumni and Students Connect Through Choreography
The W&L Repertory Dance Company’s alumni-student dance performance in New York City’s Center for Performance Research returned after a four-year hiatus.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Unjudge Someone
The Human Library, a collaboration between the Mudd Center for Ethics and Leyburn Library, brought the W&L community together in conversation.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





VITA Program Returns
Washington and Lee students are applying their accounting skills in the community as part of the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance program. 


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            


In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement
© Copyright 2024 Washington & Lee