Welcome to Washington and Lee and Lexington, Virginia. Whether you're visiting as a prospective student, a history lover or a university guest we hope you enjoy your visit.



Admissions
If you're a prospective student please consider scheduling a visit with our admissions office. We would love to give you a tour of our beautiful campus and learn more about your future goals.



The Arts
W&L's Lenfest Center for the Arts hosts more than 100 music, theater and dance performances each year, by both student and professional ensembles.



Libraries
Washington and Lee has three libraries, two on undergraduate campus and one at the Law School. Libraries are open 24/7 to W&L students, faculty and staff when classes are in session. The general public is welcome between 6:00am and 10:00pm throughout the week.



Museums
Our museums include University Chapel and Galleries, the Reeves Museum of Ceramics and Watson Pavilion, offering permanent and rotating exhibits on art and history. The Japanese Tearoom serves as a classroom for the Way of Tea, and a center for cultural activities relating Japanese arts. 



Sports
W&L offers 24 varsity sports as well as club and intramurals. We compete at the NCAA Division III level and regularly claim championships in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference. Home games are typically free and open to the public.



Our Location

Our campus is located in the heart of downtown Lexington and is easily explored on foot.
Visitors
Virtual Tour

Off
Campus

The reasons to visit don't stop at our campus. Lexington is a charming destination for food, art and adventure-lovers alike.




Stay

Lodging
Lexington accommodations range from luxury hotels to charming B&Bs, cabins and campgrounds.




Eat

Dining
Options ranging from fine dining to fast food, Southern staples to locally crafted ice cream and gelato make sure you won't go hungry when you visit Lexington. 




Explore

Local Arts and Culture
Whether it's local shopping, gallery-hopping, visiting local wineries and breweries or partaking in seasonal events and festivals, you won't be bored in Lexington. 




Get Outside

Outdoor Recreation
Lexington's proximity to over 64,000 acres of National Forest and two rivers make it a haven for outdoor enthusiasts. Visitors can easily access the Blue Ridge Parkway and Appalachian Trail, and can hike, bike, climb, fish and paddle at any number of breathtaking spots.



Prospective Students
As one of the nation's top liberal arts colleges--and the only one to offer both an accredited undergraduate school of business and a graduate school of law, W&L has a lot to offer prospective students.
Job Candidates
Washington and Lee University strives to recruit and retain exceptionally qualified faculty and staff who are committed to the values of the University.



In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement
© Copyright 2024 Washington & Lee