Parental leave is available to benefit-eligible staff. Leave is available immediately following the birth (including through surrogacy) or placement of a child through adoption or foster care. This policy cannot be used, however, in the event of adoption of a spouse's or domestic partner's child.
Primary Parental Leave: Eight consecutive weeks of paid leave will be provided to a primary caregiver, to be taken immediately upon the arrival of a child. A primary caregiver is defined as a person who has primary responsibility for the care of a child following the birth or the child coming into the custody, care, and control of the parent for the first time.
Secondary Parental Leave: Four weeks of paid leave (which may be taken intermittently) will be provided to a secondary caregiver, to be used anytime within the first 12 months following the arrival of a child. A secondary caregiver is defined as a person who has parental responsibility for the child but is not the primary caregiver.
Employees should request parental leave in writing to their supervisor as early as possible and no later than 90 days in advance of the requested leave. They must complete the Parental Leave form at the same time - this form notifies Human Resources, who will contact the employee regarding time off and benefits. If eligible for FMLA, staff also need to submit an FMLA Request form shortly prior to the commencement of their leave. HR will notify the employee if they are eligible for FMLA.
Additional Information:
Please contact Human Resources with any questions.
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement