By Erica TurmanApril 16, 2019
Julia Kaczmar ’19, from Wayne, Pennsylvania, and a senior at Washington and Lee University, has been awarded a Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange for Young Professionals (CBYX) fellowship for study and internship experience in Germany. At W&L, Kaczmar is a business administration and German double major.
CBYX is a yearlong fellowship, funded by the German Bundestag and U.S. Congress through the U.S. Department of State. The program annually allows 75 American young professionals to study, work and live with a host in Germany.
The highly competitive program consists of three phases: two months of German language school; four months of classes in the student’s career field at a university, technical school or professional school; and a five-month internship in the student’s career field. Participants are placed throughout Germany.
Kaczmar said her time at W&L has readied her for this experience.
“The German department really encouraged me to apply to this program, and I’m glad I did. I’m excited to integrate myself into the German business community through the internship phase of the program,” Kaczmar said. “My skills in German and business will transfer well to the German classroom and work environment. I hope to be able to use this opportunity to become fluent in German. I have been taking German language classes since seventh grade, and I really want to graduate to fluency.”
After her year abroad, Kaczmar plans to move to New York City to take a job in the Executive Development Program at Bloomingdale’s.




Related //Business Administration, German, The College, The Williams SchoolTagged //award, Business Administration, CBYX, Class of 2019, Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange for Young Professionals, fellowship, German 
Share this:Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Click to print (Opens in new window) 



													You must be logged in to post a comment.