By Brian LaubscherAugust 17, 2023
Washington and Lee University continues to make progress on several campus construction projects in support of the campus master plan that was approved by the Board of Trustees in October 2021.
Below is an update on the progress of various projects around campus.
Dining Venue Renovation (First Phase) – John W. Elrod Commons
The first phase of the dining venue renovations to the Marketplace and Café 77 began in February 2023 and is nearing its completion. The Marketplace officially opens Monday, Aug. 21 and Café 77 is slated to officially open Sunday, Sept. 3.
W&L Turf Field Replacement
Work on replacing the e-layer and AstroTurf® playing surface at the W&L Turf Field began in April 2023 and was completed in July. The new field is officially online and ready to host the Generals’ field hockey team for preseason camp this month.
Student Health Center
The Student Health Center completed its move from Davis Hall to its temporary location at 200 Generals Lane in late June. The facility is ready to receive students when they arrive on campus later this month. The center will be housed in this location until the new Lindley Center for Student Wellness is complete, with construction anticipated to begin on the building’s East Denny Circle site in January 2024.
University Chapel
University Chapel is receiving several updates to the interior of the facility. The indoor renovation includes the installation of a screen wall in the anteroom located between the original 1868 chapel and the 1883 annex containing the Lee memorial sculpture and family crypt. The screen wall provides a visible barrier between the chapel and the sculpture chamber, while allowing for freedom of movement between the two spaces. The chapel is expected to reopen in time to host university events scheduled for this fall.
New Williams School Building
The new Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics will be constructed on West Washington Street on the site currently occupied by Baker Hall and Davis Hall. W&L recently began the demolition of Baker and Davis Halls. The entire construction site has been fenced, and Early-Fielding Way will be limited to construction vehicles. W&L community members are strongly encouraged to read and follow the posted signage around the worksite. Additionally, residents of Gaines Hall and those utilizing Evans Dining Hall and Early-Fielding Hall should expect construction noise and two planned short-term power outages in late August/early September. Construction related to the new Williams School building is expected to last until the end of Summer 2025.
Sydney Lewis Hall Roof and Exterior Maintenance
The maintenance to Sydney Lewis Hall began in May 2023 and is tracking on schedule for completion before the end of the 2023 calendar year. Faculty, staff and students who utilize the facility can expect the remaining exterior maintenance to produce only minimal impacts throughout the Fall Semester.
Dining Venue Renovation (Second Phase) – John W. Elrod Commons
The second phase of the Elrod Commons dining renovations involves extending the back dining area of the Marketplace into the Cohen Family Amphitheater, allowing for additional indoor and outdoor seating. The university is currently awaiting permitting and has begun preparing the site for construction, which is expected to begin October 2023. Construction activities for this project will change the flow of pedestrian traffic near the Commons, the amphitheater and Reid Hall. Fences and temporary sidewalks will be installed through the area and W&L community members are strongly encouraged to read and follow the posted signage around the worksite. The second phase of the Elrod Commons dining renovations is expected to be completed by Fall Term 2024.
For continuous updates on the capital projects that the university is undertaking as part of its master plan, please visit the Capital Projects update page on the University Facilities website.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.