The Program is designed to help students gain a critical understanding of Latin America, the Carribbean and its people thoughout the Americas.
The LACS curriculum includes over 70 courses from disciplines both in the College and Williams School, including Anthropology, Art, Business, Economics, English, French, History, Politics Portuguese, Sociology, and Spanish. The interdisciplinary Program in Latin American and Caribbean Studies (LACS) allows students to explore the region's histories, cultural practices, socioeconomic structures, and politics, with particular attention to the incremental transformations shaped by the encounter of Indigenous, African, Asian, and European peoples, and subsequent waves of migration from and to the region.
Students who complete the Minor can gain the background necessary for careers in journalism, law, teaching, bilingual education, social work, business, government and international organizations, as well as graduate work in Latin American Studies and related disciplines. Recent graduates have pursued careers in medicine, law, specialized non-profit organizations, business, science research, and urban planning, among others.
Loading...
EXP credit for 4, 6, and 8-week programs that combine Spanish language instruction with practical work assignments in Nicoya, Costa Rica. Volunteer opportunities include primary and secondary schools, a local bank and restaurants, the courthouse and nursing home, among others.
EXP credit for a 6-week experience at Holy Trinity College in Mar de Plata, Argentina. Students work as teacher’s assistants in various fields.
LACS offers a variety of engaged learning opportunities for EXP credit that allow students to interact with the issues and people that define the Americas.  For more information see the Summer Opportunities page.
“More than an area studies about a singular region, the LACS Program explores the Americas in the broader sense.  To understand today’s Western Hemisphere students must make interdisciplinary connections that transcend political borders.  From Canada to Chile and Bermuda to Brazil, our curriculum focuses on the unique experiences that define the Americas.”
~Jeffrey C. Barnett, Professor of Spanish

In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement