By Peter JettonJune 21, 2021
W&L Law Dean Brant Hellwig has announced the annual awards that recognize faculty members for their accomplishments as teachers and scholars.
Scholarship Awards
Johanna Bond, Joshua Fairfield and Sarah Haan received the Ethan Allen Faculty Fellowship for scholarship.
Later this summer, Oxford University Press will publish Bond’s manuscript entitled “Global Intersectionality and Contemporary Human Rights.” After exploring the influence of intersectionality theory on human rights in the modern era, the book makes the case for the United Nations and other human rights organizations to more actively embrace intersectionality as an analytical framework to fully address the complexity of human rights violations around the world. The manuscript represents the culmination of work Bond has undertaken over the course of two decades on the topics of feminism, intersectionality, and global human rights.
Joshua Fairfield recently published his second book-length project entitled “Runaway Technology:  Can Law Keep Up?” with Cambridge University Press. In this manuscript, Fairfield challenges the prevailing wisdom that law takes a back seat to rampant technological change. He does so by illustrating that law itself is a form of social technology that is capable of adapting to our evolving understanding of how humans use language to cooperate.
Sarah Haan’s latest law review article entitled “Corporate Governance and the Feminization of Capital” was accepted for publication in the Stanford Law Review and provides a critical new perspective on the gendered nature of corporate power. The article draws on a wide range of historical sources to detail the growth in stock ownership among women that took place during the first half of the twentieth century – highlighting the rise in female participation in capital markets well before gains in the labor and management sectors.  Haan then explores how the increasing prominence of women shareholders affected foundational principles of corporate governance, particularly issues concerning the role of shareholders.
Teaching Awards
Professors Brandon Hasbrouck and Allan Trammell received the John W. Elrod Law Alumni Fellowship for teaching.
Hasbrouck, a 2011 graduate of the Law School, joined the faculty three years ago. He teaches courses in Statutory Interpretation, Criminal Law, and Critical Race Theory. In his announcement, Hellwig noted that Hasbrouck continues to excel in the broad realm of teaching given his expertise and enthusiasm for the material of his courses and his profound level of engagement with his students. Student evaluations consistently mention the knowledge, energy, openness, care, accessibility, and fairness Hasbrouck brings to his classes.
Alan Trammell just completed his first year at W&L Law, teaching Civil Procedure, Federal Jurisdiction, and Conflict of Laws. He was praised by his students on his mastery of the material in each course and his uncanny ability to make complex and technical aspects of the law easily digestible.
“One fixture of the past year on campus was Alan holding group review sessions with his students in the courtyard, sessions that many of his 1L Civil Procedure students particularly appreciated,” said Hellwig. “Alan has added significant strength to a faculty already well regarded for the quality of our teaching.”
Experiential Education Fellowships
In 2009, Jessine Monaghan ‘79L, established an endowed fund to support the experiential curriculum of the Law School. The primary objective of the fund is to provide grant support for the development of new experiential courses.  More broadly, the fellowship supports innovation and excellence in our experiential curriculum.
Matthew Boaz received the Jessine A. Monaghan Fellowship for experiential education.
Boaz serves as the Visiting Director of the Immigrant Rights Clinic and has built upon the clinic’s model by incorporating a module on trauma informed lawyering as well as expanding the clinic’s instruction on cross-cultural lawyering. He has capitalized on his own expertise in the “crimmigration” field to expand the clinic’s services in immigration detention and emphasized the role of systemic racism in the development of immigration law and policy.
If you know a W&L faculty member who has done great, accolade-worthy things, tell us about them! Nominate them for an accolade.