By Law CommunicationsJune 12, 2023
W&L Law Dean Melanie Wilson has announced two faculty appointments to roles in the senior leadership of the Law School. Professor Beth Belmont will serve as the Director of Experiential Education, and Professor Brandon Hasbrouck will take the reins as Director of the Frances Lewis Law Center.
A member of the faculty since 2001, Professor Belmont leads the Community Legal Practice Center, a clinic that provides legal services to qualified residents in the Rockbridge community. She also teaches Evidence, Family Law, in the advocacy portion of the 3L Immersion program, and as part of the Law, Justice, and Society undergraduate minor.
As Director of Experiential Education, Professor Belmont will cultivate W&L Law’s experiential course offerings, promote the integration of experiential components into doctrinal areas of the curriculum, and ensure a robust selection of high-quality experiential offerings. In addition to overseeing the ongoing assessment and evaluation of the experiential curriculum, Professor Belmont will also arrange faculty enrichment opportunities, such as workshops and presentations, on the topic of experiential education.
“Beth has been a leader on our faculty for many years. In addition to serving on critical committees and providing extensive support to several student affinity groups, she is steeped in knowledge about quality experiential legal education,” said Dean Wilson. “I am excited about the incredible energy, creativity, expertise, and positivity that Beth brings to the role.”
Brandon Hasbrouck, a 2011 graduate of the Law School, will lead the Frances Lewis Law Center, the Law School’s center for intellectual life and faculty research support. As Director, Professor Hasbrouck will chair the Law Center committee, which oversees the funding of summer research projects and research assistants for faculty, sponsoring and supporting conferences and symposia organized at the Law School, and hosting visiting scholars for workshop presentations or more extended visits.
As a scholar, Professor Hasbrouck has won the Ethan Allen Faculty Fellowship for excellence in legal scholarship twice (2020-21 and 2022-23), and the Lewis Prize for excellence in legal scholarship twice (2020-21 and 2021-22). In the last two years alone, he has published, or had accepted for publication, nine separate scholarly articles and essays, including placements in the Yale Law Journal, the Harvard Law Review, the Columbia Law Review Forum, the Michigan Law Review, and the UCLA Law Review.
“Brandon’s record of excellence, his passion for our law school, his support of his colleagues, and his enthusiasm make him a fantastic choice to lead the Frances Lewis Law Center,” said Dean Wilson. “I am particularly thankful for Brandon’s significant contributions to last year’s faculty appointments committee, the clerkship committee, his role advising BLSA, and mentoring and advising so many students, and his service on the Law Center faculty committee.”
Both appointments take effect July 1.
If you know a W&L faculty member who has done great, accolade-worthy things, tell us about them! Nominate them for an accolade.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.