In addition to our special events, we host a weekly, confidential support group, every Friday at 4:00pm. Contact Rallie Snowden for details.
The mission of the Washington and Lee University Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Questioning (LGBTQ) Resource Center is to affirm the existence and development of LGBTQ individuals at W&L, and to support a strong and welcoming community among them and allies within the larger institution.
The Center works to diminish the prejudice that limits the educational experience and safety of LGBTQ community members and others within the university. The Center provides an open, diverse, and safe environment in which all members of the W&L community may explore sexual orientation and gender identity issues and serves as a focal point for campus LGBTQ resources, services, and programs. The Center contributes to the University's commitment to intellectual exploration, diversity, and responsible leadership, and upholds the University's values of honor, integrity, and civility. We constantly strive to meet our mission through:

Hey there! My name is Jake Reeves and I am the Assistant Director for LGBTQ+ Life at W&L! While I most often work with and for the student population on campus, my position involves all aspects of LGBTQ+ life on campus - not just students! I facilitate workshops and educational opportunities for faculty and staff on LGBTQ+ identity and support such as Safe Zone Ally Trainings, content-specific workshops, department assessments, and so much more! For students, I also provide many educational and social programming opportunities like the Fall Picnic (with WGSS), Queer Sex and Dating, classroom visits - the list goes on! I manage the physical space of the LGBTQ Resource Center, located in the Red House, and work with the students who frequent the space to make sure it is providing the necessary resources and information. My position also allows me to work closely with student organizations like Queer Liberation Alliance (QLA) and OUTLaw to support our populations on campus. Feel free to stop by my office in Commons 217 to chat - I love getting coffee with students!


Asst. Dir. of Inclusion and Engagement for LGBTQ+ SupportJake Reeves (He/Him/His)Office of Inclusion and Engagement540-458-8354jreeves@wlu.edu
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement