By Law CommunicationsFebruary 22, 2023
Lisa J. Hedrick, a member of the law class of 2008 and a partner in the firm of Hirschler Fleischer, was named the 2022 Mergers and Acquisitions Legal Advisor of the Year by the M&A Advisor, an industry publication and professional network.
Hedrick, a summa cum laude graduate of the law school, developed an interest in business law while at W&L Law thanks to classes with Prof. Lyman Johnson. But she was several years into her practice career before she began working in M&A.
“About two years into my career, I sat down and reflected about what type of projects I liked and what I wanted to do and M&A was the answer,” said Hedrick. “So I took a deep dive and really became intentional about pursuing M&A as a career path.”
In 2014, she founded Richmond Women in M&A, a networking organization for women deal professionals, including lawyers, bankers, private equity investors, and accountants. In 2016, she was named Young Lawyer of the Year by the Richmond Bar Association. She is an active member of the American Bar Association’s Mergers and Acquisitions Committee.
Hedrick is the chair of Hirschler’s M&A and Finance practices and handles transaction sizes ranging from $1 million to over $1 billion. In a recent interview with Virginia Lawyer magazine, said she has made a name for herself with the number of transactions she is able to close—often three to four a month.
“Really, I think my number one role is to get the deal done,” Hedrick said. “And the thing I like about mergers and acquisitions as opposed to, say, litigation, is although there’s a counterparty, and there can be points that are adversarial where I certainly negotiate and advocate on behalf of my clients, at the end of the day, the goal is the same for both sides, which is: let’s get this transaction completed.”
Hedrick added that her attraction to M&A was rooted in the complexity of bringing two sides together, showing them the pros and the cons of the deal, and then negotiating the transaction so that the parties still like each other when the negotiation is closed.
If you know any W&L alumni who would be great profile subjects, tell us about them! Nominate them for a web profile.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.