By Emily InnesJanuary 26, 2024

The Lenfest Center at Washington and Lee University presents the Manhattan Chamber Players in concert on Saturday, Feb. 10 at 8 p.m. in the Wilson Concert Hall.
The performance is sponsored by W&L’s Concert Guild, which brings professional performing artists to campus each year for concerts and master classes. Tickets are required and available online or in person at the Lenfest Box Office.
The New York-based Manhattan Chamber Players (MCP) perform the greatest works in the chamber repertoire at the highest level. Formed in 2015 by Luke Fleming, who currently serves as the founding artistic director, the ensemble is comprised of an impressive roster of musicians who share a common musical background and ideals of music-making. The members of the Manhattan Chamber Players are former students of the Curtis Institute, Juilliard School, Colburn School and the New England Conservatory, and foster independent careers as soloists or members of other professional groups beyond the MCP.
The Feb. 10 concert will feature selections from Ludwig van Beethoven’s “25 Scottish Songs,” Dmitri Shostakovich’s “Seven Romances on Poems of Alexander Blok,” Giocomo Puccini’s “Crisantemi,” Richard Strauss’ “Morgen!,” Frank Bridge’s “Three Songs for Soprano, Viola, and Piano” and Ernest Chausson’s “Chanson Perpétuelle, Op. 37.”
Order your tickets online today or call the Lenfest Center box office at 540-458-8000 for ticket purchase information. Box office hours are Monday-Friday, 9 a.m.-4 p.m. The cost is $25 for adults, $20 for seniors and $15 for W&L faculty and staff; students receive free tickets by showing their student identification.
For a full list of this season’s performances, visit the Lenfest Center’s website.
The Lenfest Center for the Arts, home of the Department of Theater, Dance, and Film Studies and the Department of Music and Department of Art and Art History is a multi-use facility designed and equipped to accommodate a broad spectrum of the performing arts, including theater, musical theater, opera and operetta, choral and band music, dance and performance art in one energizing complex.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.