Discover with Dave Parker﻿ recently experienced the fun of Virginia Safari Park in Natural Bridge, Virginia.
There is joy in Dave Parker's voice as he introduces the world to Lexington. See our beautiful downtown just past peak fall foliage.
Alumna dishes on fave in-and-around Lexington stops that keep her coming back.
National Geographic chose Natural Bridge State Park as the best way to get outdoors in Virginia.
Virginia Tourism Corporation tapped Lexington for a run-down of fun things to do, but in a day-by-day itinerary style that lays it all out for you.
LoveExploring.com describes the Shenandoah Valley as "achingly beautiful" and says Lexington "oozes old-world charm," which we adore, of course.
Rockbridge County's own Big Spring Farm was on the short list of "the most beautiful wedding venues in Virginia."
Blue Ridge Country details the many things we love about the holiday season in Lexington, Buena Vista, and Rockbridge County.
Far & Wide has a round up of the Best Small U.S. Towns With Fewer Than 10,000 Residents and Lexington is included at number 88.
The 2021 Fall/Winter edition of Wine & Life Country profiles the owners and millers of Wade's Mill, John and Karen Siegfried.
Rockbridge Guitar Company was an idea born in Rockbridge County, Virginia by natives Brian Calhoun and Randall Ray.
The 2021 Spring/Summer edition of Wine & Country Life featured a beautiful multi-page spread about The Georges, downtown Lexington's luxury boutique inn.
Lexington was recently included in a round-up of "Quaint Virginia Towns That Could Star in a Hallmark Christmas Movie" by TravelAwaits.com.
Southern Living has tapped Lexington as their choice for Virginia's "Most Romantic Winter Getaway" in a recent article.
TheStreet recently lauded Lexington as a great place to retire in their "Great College Towns to Retire In" article.
﻿unTACKED, The Equestrian Lifestyle Magazine by The Chronicle of the Horse featured Lexington in their Fall 2021 issue.
Lexington chef Jenny Elmes won a Virginia Green Travel Alliance award, as did Natural Bridge State Park.
Virginia may already be for lovers, but it turns out it's an excellent place for stargazers, too. In April, the International Dark Sky Association awarded two parks in Virginia, Natural Bridge State […]
Getaway Mavens, a popular travel blog, included Lexington as one of their "﻿20 Surprisingly Romantic Getaways in Virginia" ﻿article with references to the Virginia Safari Park, Dinosaur Kingdom II, […]
Learn about Lexington and Rockbridge County through the eyes of a North Carolina couple traveling through life.
Per ​Travel + Leisure Magazine​, Lexington is number one on "The 10 Best Places to Celebrate Labor Day Weekend in the U.S., According to Yelp," and we're in good company.
“My goal was to create happiness, and that’s exactly what this stuff does,” Mark Cline said of his many sculptures. He recently shared his non-traditional art education with Elizabeth Derby for […]
See all of the wonderful Lexington and Rockbridge area sites that made the most recent edition of TrailBlazer Magazine.
Find yourself in an unexpected foodie heaven, or pair outdoor adventure with luxury lodging. Further still, witness deep historical roots remain ever present while a community innovates and blooms in […]
"3 Days In" highlights an ideal multi-day experience between Augusta and Rockbridge Counties, including downtown Lexington, attractions, and favorite dining hot spots.
A recent article by VenueRoundup.com included two Lexington area wedding venues among "30 Stunning Wedding Venues Across Virginia."
What did Family Travels on a Budget writer Karen Dawkins find when she recently visited the Virginia Safari Park in Natural Bridge, Virginia? Wobbly new babies, giraffes, kangaroos, and plenty more.
AAA World ​recently recognized Shenandoah Art Destination in Lexington, Virginia as one of three art havens in the United States.
A recent blog by Virginia Bride Magazine highlighted Lexington, Buena Vista, and Rockbridge County wedding destinations and vendors.
The Getaway Mavens seem to have captured some of the best we have to offer in their recent article about Lexington and Rockbridge County.
LonelyPlanet.com recently compiled a list of the Top Roadside Attractions in the Shenandoah Valley, and of course, a few of our own were included.
Forbes writer Regina Cole sat down with the owners of Forest Oaks to discuss how their 32-room historic mansion makes money as a B&B and special events venue.
Included among other trails that introduce travelers to something new, the Fields of Trail Farm Trail leads to not only working farms, but the restaurants that benefit from them.
Lexington Coffee Roasters is among one of the "12 Best Coffee Roasters in the U.S.," per a recent Forbes article by Kim Westerman.
A recent edition of Boomer Magazine featured an article by Rachel Marsh, who wrote downtown Lexington is "as charming as ever."
Shenandoah Beerwerks Trail is among 99 American Buck List Delights You Might've Missed, according to LoveExploring.com.
A weekend on the Shenandoah Beerwerks Trail simply won't do. No, you'll need a full week to experience the breadth of this unique ale trail in Virginia's Shenandoah Valley.
Lexington has been included as a destination ideal for entertainment, relaxation, and dining.
Costco Connection​ featured our favorite family pastime in their May edition. Nostalgia at its finest is on display every Friday through Saturday night at Hull's Drive-In just four miles north of […]
Newspaper Publisher and CEO Cynthia Calvert recently visited Lexington on a media tour and was smitten enough to offer a full report of her experiences in a recent article for The Tribune in Humble, […]
The Red Hen and Sweet Things Ice Cream Shoppe are recognized by Intermezzo Magazine, a publication "written for passionate-about life readers in search of the finest in food, wine, home & travel."
Meet Mark Cline, Virginia's Roadside Attraction King and entertainer extraordinaire.
Milk-flavored coffee-drinking writer Johanna Read met real coffee when she visited Lexington Coffee Roasters. If she can get her hands on these beans, she'll take her coffee black from now on.
Fox Hill Bed & Breakfast in Fairfield, Virginia has been named one of the Top 5 Valentine's Getaways in America.
Roanoke Times reporter Alison Graham recently sat down to interview Southern Inn Restaurant Chef George Huger about a new initiative to bring displaced culinary students from Puerto Rico to Lexington […]
John M. Smith of Belleville News hiked a portion of the Appalachian Trail (AT) and wrote of his experience and research in an opinion piece. He met "Blood Mountain" at the Punch Bowl Shelter; read […]
From enjoying the outdoors to nourishing your body with clean food, our area is an excellent destination for those who love being outside and eating great meals. So basically, most everyone!
If you're looking for a unique place to stay while you visit and explore Lexington, Rockbridge County, and the Shenandoah Valley, Tom Bradshaw's 1926 C&O caboose is an ideal "tiny house" for doing […]
Artist and living legend Mark Cline is highlighted in the October edition of The Costco Connection, a publication about and for members of the popular warehouse shopping club, Costco​.
Thomas Jefferson and George Washington fell in love with Virginia's Shenandoah Valley. Read this article by Logan Ward to discover ways to follow in their footsteps and love the Valley, too.
Dinosaur Kingdom II and the Virginia Military Institute Museum are two of five "offbeat" attractions you need to see in Virginia's Shenandoah Valley, and they're both found right here.
The deepest caverns on the East Coast are found in the Shenandoah Valley, and in Rockbridge County specifically. Washingtonian offered a list of show caves you won't want to miss.
Virginia Routes 252 and 39 loop to create one of the best scenic drives in the Shenandoah Valley, according to Logan Ward of Washingtonian.
Washingtonian includes Lexington as one of "three towns where you can get a taste of the Shenandoah Valley’s history, architecture, food scene—and pride."
Luxury and Boutique Hotels recently visited downtown Lexington to capture information about our two luxury boutique hotels: The Georges and Robert E. Lee Hotel.
Lexington's Hull's Drive-In is the first community-saved drive-in movie theater in America. Learn more about our treasure when you read the article and listen to Tom Wilmer's NPR Podcast "Journeys of […]
Tom Wilmer of the NPR Podcast "Journeys of Discovery with Tom Wilmer" recently visited Rockbridge County and Heartstone Lodge and Retreat Center, a place where solace and tranquility is easily found.
Travel writers David and Kay Scott toured some of the Shenandoah Valley's best historic sites, which happened to be our own Rockbridge County gems.
Listeners of the NPR Podcast "Journeys of Discovery with Tom Wilmer" were treated to an overview of Lexington's historic sites, including our famous landmark, the Natural Bridge. If you missed it, you […]
It was a collaborative community effort to get out the vote for Lexington to receive a top five ranking in the USA Today 10Best Southern Small Towns list.
Route 11 delivers visitors into Rockbridge County traveling ​over​ our beloved Natural Bridge, showcasing some of our top attractions and leading them into downtown Lexington.
Fun in Fairfax recently visit the Shenandoah Valley and spend time in Lexington exploring our history, food, and culture.
Virginia's historic homes are always a pleasure to tour and enjoy, and they boast incredible stories that aren't heard anywhere else.  "Fun in Fairfax VA" highlighted some of Virginia's historic […]
A Lexington, Virginia historic accommodation has been included as one of eight ideal escapes from Northern Virginia.
McCool Travel recently visited the Shenandoah Valley, taking in the sites and scenery along the way. Three of our favorite places were among those they checked out. Can you guess which ones?
Wade's Mill, a 1750s water powered, working gristmill is under new ownership. WDBJ7's Bruce Young has the introduction to John Siegfried and his wife Karen, the new millers.
The Shenandoah Valley is the Gateway to Adventure, according to writer Renee S. Gordon. Her summer visit found her meandering from Front Royal to Natural Bridge, noting several of the historic sites […]
Renee S. Gordon of the Philadelphia Sun hones in on some of our greatest assets in her summer travel article. Consider her thoughts on the Natural Bridge, Cyrus McCormick Farm, and the history that […]
In his explorations, writer Bob Ruegsegger considers the life of Thomas Jonathan Jackson, the war hero and professor history left to be known as "Stonewall."
"Nothing draws visitors into the vortex of the historical past quite like a ride in a horse-drawn carriage," wrote Bob Ruegsegger for The Civil War Courier. His summertime visit included one of our […]
Looking for an intimate affair you won't soon forget? Bob Ruegsegger of The Virginian-Pilot found one: the Virginia Safari Park in Natural Bridge, Virginia.
Karen Dawkins of Family Travels on a Budget recently visited Lexington and the Rockbridge area with her children. Read about their experience and find inspiration about our historic town.
Family Travels on a Budget joins our elation with the unveiling of Natural Bridge as Virginia's 37th state park. Writer Karen Dawkins exclaims, "To put it simply, Natural Bridge is awe-inspiring!" We […]
Gold Coast Magazine recently wrote an article entitled "Coming Home By the Valley" in which several Shenandoah Valley cities were highlighted, including Lexington.
Getaways for Grownups writer Renee S. Gordon recently visited Lexington in search of Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson. It wasn't hard, since Lexington is the location of the only home Jackson ever owned.
Lexington is tapped alongside five other Virginia towns as of the "Top 10 Small Towns of the Capital Region." The Capital Region includes Virginia, Maryland, and Washington, D.C.
Buena Vista is an Appalachian Trail Community, boosting awareness of the town for hikers and bringing in new tax dollars. Hikers are welcome to use public facilities like the post office and library. […]
Richmond Magazine's Genevelyn Steel recently visited Lexington, enjoying restaurants, taking a ghost tour, and checking out our famous historic wonder.
Did you know three of the Valley's 10 Beautiful Towns are right under your nose? TheCultureTrip.com included Buena Vista, Lexington, and Natural Bridge among their favorites.
What can you do in 48 hours in Lexington? Blue Ridge Outdoors has a few suggestions for a getaway.
Southern Living editor picks Natural Bridge as a best roadside attraction in the South.
The A.T. from Glasgow is a great day hike with both water features and views. At just 7.6 hiking miles and one hour from Roanoke or Lynchburg, it's the perfect weekend destination.
Glasgow, an Appalachian Trail Community, welcomes hikers with shelter, hot and cold water, electricity, and more of the things the rest of us take for granted.
Two Rockbridge County attractions made Katherine Calos's recent Richmond Times-Dispatch article of cool sites to discover or revisit.
Writer Reed Hellman traveled Route 39, the Appalachian Waters Scenic Byway, in October 2015. Read his thoughts and recommendations for exploring from Lexington to Summersville, WV.
Thrillist has recently recognized Lexington as one of Virginia's small towns that you should be paying attention to. See why!
Lexington and Buena Vista are ranked as "15 Safest And Most Peaceful Places To Live In Virginia."
Lexington, where new finesse meshes with longstanding traditions of hospitality.