W&L News OfficeSeptember 6, 2023
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
I have worked at W&L for four and a half years. I am a W&L alum (’17), and it’s hard for me to believe I’ve now been an employee for longer than I was a student.
Q. What do you like most about working at W&L?
* Don’t be cheesy, don’t be cheesy *  – the people! I am constantly learning from my staff and faculty coworkers, and not a day goes by that I am not in awe of what our thoughtful and innovative students are accomplishing. This welcoming and caring community is the reason I returned to Lexington and to W&L.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
My favorite spot at W&L is the gazebo on the back-campus trails. You’ll find me walking there with my chocolate lab, Moose, any time of year before or after work.
Q. Where did you grow up?
I grew up in Norfolk, Virginia with two younger brothers who are also W&L alumni (Brian Peccie ’20 and Jimmy Peccie ’22).
Q. What advice do you have for students (or parents)?
I advise students to always be open to new opportunities – both at W&L and beyond – and be purposeful about learning from those around you. Follow your curiosities, ask lots of questions and take things one step at a time.
Q. What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
The most adventurous thing I have ever done is hike along the tri-borders of Austria, Italy, and Slovenia with the W&L Outing Club last summer. I did not know any of the other alumni or students going into the trip, but we all bonded quickly about our individual W&L experiences. If you have not taken advantage of all that the Outing Club has to offer, I encourage you to do so! Fun people, great adventures.
Q. What’s your favorite thing to do when you’re not working?
My favorite thing to do is explore new craft breweries, such as Big Lick Brewing in Roanoke most recently. And if trivia is happening, sign me up! My go-to brewery trivia team name is “Smarty Pints,” and I have hosted trivia myself a few times.
Q. If you could live anywhere, where would you build your dream home?
If I could live anywhere, I would plant myself in a beach house in the Outer Banks in Nags Head, North Carolina and wake up every morning to a sunrise on the beach.
Q. Who most inspires you?
I am inspired every day by the incredible women on my team in the Career and Professional Development Office. Just as the students do, I lean on them for advice with regards to not only work and my own professional development but also friendships, relationships, mental health, book recommendations—you name it. I am so inspired by these women who are passionate about helping students discover their own passions.
Q. What book are you reading now?
I am currently reading “Lessons in Chemistry” by Bonnie Garmus. I love to read, and book recommendations are my love language, so please reach out if you have recommendations! “Demon Copperhead” is next on my list.
Q. What music are you listening to these days?
There is nothing better than country music in the summer. I particularly love Chris Stapleton, Luke Combs and Eric Church. The #1 artist on my Spotify wrapped this year will definitely be Taylor Swift, though. I attended her Eras tour in Pittsburgh over the summer and no show will ever compare.
Q. Your favorite film (movie) of all time?
My favorite movie of all time is “Get Smart” (2008). I’m a big Steve Carell gal, and that movie never fails to make me laugh.
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
I have to say I visit Instagram most often, because that is how I keep up-to-date with all of my friends’ adventures.
Q. If they made a movie about your life, who would play you?
Sophia Bush would play me in a movie about my life. She played a character named Brooke on the drama series “One Tree Hill,” so if the shoe fits…
Q. What is your desert island food?
Oh man, I love this question, because I have actually applied to be on Survivor twice! If (when) CBS gives me the call to be a contestant, I think that while on the desert island, I would be dreaming of my favorite food, pasta bolognese … or a big pepperoni pizza, which sounds easier to eat on a desert island.
Q. Tell us something most people don’t know about you.
People may not know that in addition to working at W&L, I also “beer-tend” at the local craft beer bar Brew Ridge Taps a couple times a month on weekends in Lexington. Working at BRT has introduced me to some incredible friends of all ages and backgrounds as well as taught me more real-world, soft skills than I could have imagined. I think everyone should work in the service industry at some point in life.
Q. What is your secret talent?
I wouldn’t call it a secret, and I don’t want to toot my own horn, but I would call myself a karaoke crowd pleaser. I have never met a microphone I didn’t like (but no, I don’t sing well), and I have a whole playlist of karaoke songs at the ready.
Q. Anything else you want to know?
I’d love to chat!

													You must be logged in to post a comment.