W&L News OfficeFebruary 27, 2024

Leif Smith ’24
Hometown: Virginia Beach, Virginia
Major: Business administration and politics double major
Why did you choose to come to W&L?
I chose to come to W&L because of the strong balance between academics, athletics and social life.
Have you discovered a course or topic that you didn’t expect to study when you first came to W&L?
One of the great things about Washington and Lee is the wide variety of topics we can study. I have really enjoyed classes for my majors but also those that don’t fall in the realm of business administration and politics (four semesters of Arabic and Math 100 Breaking Codes and Puzzles are two examples).
Where is your “home” on campus?
My home on campus is the lacrosse locker room. Over the past four years I have found a family in my teammates, and I will have these relationships for the rest of my life.
What has been your most impactful experience at W&L?
My most impactful experience has been with the Office of Career and Professional Development at W&L. Not only are they super helpful and have prepared me for my career, but I have had the opportunity to work as a career fellow and help students in the same way I was helped as an underclassman to find a career that I am excited to start.
Have you found a mentor on campus? 
My mentor on campus is John Jensen (executive director of Alumni and Career Services). He has been extremely influential not only in my success at W&L but inspired me to choose the career path that I did as well as give back to the community through being a career fellow and coaching lacrosse here in Rockbridge County.
What was your favorite class and why?
My favorite class was Math 100 with Professor Carrie Finch-Smith. Not only did we spend a majority of the class solving Sudokus and breaking codes, but her teaching style was somewhat hands off and allowed students to think for themselves. However, if I was struggling, her office was always open and she was super helpful every time I saw her.
What are your hobbies/interests? How has W&L helped you develop and pursue them?
My biggest hobby is music. I play guitar and also host a radio show on WLUR 91.5. My time at W&L has given me the confidence to express myself and do what makes me happy.
How have your experiences at W&L prepared you for post-graduate success?
W&L has challenged me in ways I have not been challenged before. With a demanding schedule every semester, I have learned how to prioritize my time.
What do you like about being a DIII athlete?
I love being a DIII athlete because I believe DIII athletes are the whole package. They are smart, driven athletically and academically, and still have time outside of sport and school to develop meaningful relationships with multiple groups.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.