W&L News OfficeAugust 16, 2023
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
I have worked at W&L for more than four years. I arrived in 2019.
Q. What do you like most about working at W&L?
The students! Holy smokes are they amazing. Smart, ambitious, creative and totally unafraid to pursue the things that matter to them – they make my job one of the best on campus.
Q. Where did you grow up?
I grew up in Littleton, Colorado.
Q. What advice do you have for students (or parents)?
Nobody cares what you major in! I majored in Classics, and my first job after college was as a high school math teacher. Study the things that excite you, take advantage of campus resources and be open-minded about your next steps. You are poised for success no matter what!
Q. What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
I went bungee jumping off the Kawarau Gorge Suspension Bridge in Otago, New Zealand. It is the first commercial bungee jumping site in the world!
Q. If you could live anywhere, where would you build your dream home?
Sicily, on a small island off the northwest coast called Favignana.
Q. What book are you reading now?
I am reading “Fugitive Telemetry” by Martha Wells. It is the sixth book in the Murderbot Diaries, which I HIGHLY recommend, even if you aren’t into science fiction.
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
https://us.fulbrightonline.org/. This is the homepage for the Fulbright U.S. Student Program, which is the fellowship competition to which almost 50 W&L students apply per year.
Q. What is your desert island food?
Doritos (nacho cheese or cool ranch, but I don’t have a strong preference for one over the other).
Q. Tell us something most people don’t know about you.
When I lived in Los Angeles, I was on a bowling team called Strikel J. Fox that played in the Urban Achievers Bowling League. We won the league championship in 2013 (when I bowled my personal high score of 223) and donated our winnings to The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson’s research.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.