W&L News OfficeMay 2, 2023

Name: Lily Bishop ’26
Hometown: St. Augustine, Florida
Why did you choose to come to W&L?
I chose to come to W&L off a gut feeling. The summer before my senior year of high school, I thought I knew exactly what I wanted for college, and it wasn’t W&L — but the minute I stepped on campus for a tour I didn’t even want to go on, I knew, almost immediately, without the shadow of a doubt, that it is where I belong.
What are you most looking forward to during your time at W&L?
I am most looking forward to the college experience in its entirety: exploring a wide breadth of knowledge, forming meaningful friendships, and learning more closely how to be a capable, balanced and compassionate individual.
What has been your greatest accomplishment since arriving at W&L?
It may not sound like much, but I’m very proud of how quickly I’ve acclimated to the community here on campus. There was a concern I’d find myself feeling like the shell of a person, or at the very least, a little homesick, but I’ve been actively working to overcome some of my anxieties, and it already feels natural to call W&L home.
Who at W&L has been most inspiring to you so far?
My RA, Maggie! She has fostered a wonderful environment in our hall and has made my transition so comfortable; she is also just a wonderful person in general. No elaboration necessary. If I’m anything like her after four years, then I will have turned out OK.
What inspires you?
I’m inspired by passion. It is a beautiful thing to see someone dedicate their heart and soul into a project or goal — when the passion is there, the end results are almost always magnificent, and they remind me to never get complacent with my own aspirations.
What are your hobbies/interests?
I write feverishly — sometimes. Mostly poetry, but sometimes it might be flash fiction, a short story or maybe a screenplay. The only problem is that I don’t try to write anything. It just happens. Sometimes I’ll go months without writing anything. Sometimes I can’t stop.
I also love film — while I do not have great experience in making films, I’ve dabbled with the process and have always loved it. And of course, I love watching movies, and even more than that, talking about them afterward. Also, does getting coffee count as a hobby?
What book has made the most significant impact on your life?
“Thus Spoke Zarathustra” by Friedrich Nietzsche: “One must have chaos within oneself, to give birth to a dancing star.”
What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
While I like to consider myself a somewhat adventurous person, nothing particularly bold comes to mind — ziplining in Costa Rica, maybe? Guess I’m still working on this one!
If they made a movie about your life, who would play you?
Saoirse Ronan. We look nothing alike. I do not care.
What is your desert island food?
Peanut butter.
What is your favorite movie?
“Everything Everywhere All at Once”
When you were a child, what did you want to be when you grew up?
The nice answer is that I wanted to be the president. Much more realistically, I wanted to take over the world. If world domination didn’t work out, I’d settle for mad scientist.
If you could have a conversation with anyone, who would it be and why? 
Hank Green. That man has helped my educational career more than anyone and is the reason I developed a fascination for science — I’d like to thank him.
Tell us a fun fact about yourself?
My high school superlative was “most likely to survive the apocalypse.”

													You must be logged in to post a comment.