W&L News OfficeJanuary 10, 2024
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
I started in March 2022, so a little over a year and a half.
Q. What do you like most about working at W&L?
Being able to work at a place that allows me to utilize all my skills to highlight our athletic teams, coaches and student-athletes.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
I enjoy lots of the different aspects of campus, but I really like Wilson Field. Whether it’s spending time there for work or coming after work to run on the track, I spend a lot of time there.
Q. Where did you grow up?
I grew up in Branford, Connecticut – a small coastal town.
Q. What advice do you have for students?
Maximize your time while here at W&L. Get involved, try new things and make sure you enjoy your time at college as well. You only get one chance to make this experience memorable, so take advantage of it while you still can.
Q. What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
I hiked The Presidential Traverse in the White Mountains of New Hampshire with a couple of friends. It’s a one day 23-mile hike that summits 10 different peaks, highlighted by Mt. Washington. At 6,288 feet, it is the highest peak in the Northeast.
Q. What’s your favorite thing to do when you’re not working?
I love to be active and outside. That ranges from running to hiking, pickup basketball and playing lots of golf.
Q. If you could live anywhere, where would you build your dream home?
I would love to live on an island and that island already exists. Rogers Island located off the shore of Branford, Connecticut where I grew up. It would be nice to be back to where I’m from, but secluded enough on my own island.
Q. Who most inspires you?
My parents are my biggest inspiration. Watching them tirelessly work to provide a well-rounded upbringing for my brother and I – one that I’m very fortunate to have had and has helped shape me into who I am.
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
The easy answer is generalssports.com because of having to constantly be on it for work, but my personal favorite recently is YouTube, because I watch a bunch of podcasts and videos.
Q. If they made a movie about your life, who would play you?
Christian Bale
Q. Which historical figure do you most identify with and why?
Vin Scully because I am a sports broadcaster who is obsessed with his job and loves to watch sports and talk to people about it.
Q. If you could have coffee with one person, who would it be and why?
Michael Jordan. He just has a fascinating life in a multitude of ways, so it would be rather interesting to get a personal perspective from him about some of things he has accomplished in life.
Q. Anything else you’d like to share?
I’m just someone who loves what they do and I’m happy I get to share my talent and passion for it here at W&L.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.