W&L News OfficeMarch 5, 2024

Katherine Hudson ’26
Hometown: Louisville, Kentucky
Major: Environmental studies and English double major
Have you discovered a course or topic that you didn’t expect to study when you first came to W&L?
Yes! Environmental studies. I always knew I was passionate about environmental issues, but I ended up taking several environmental humanities classes that really changed my perspective on not only these topics but life as well. They introduced me to new thoughts and ideas about how humans interact with and shape our world.
Where is your “home” on campus?
I found a sort of home in choir here. The choir here has been a constant in my life since I arrived on campus, and I have been embraced warmly as well as challenged to constantly learn and grow.
I love Lexington, Virginia! This place is so wonderful and unique, there is really nothing to compare it to. The charm of the town still has not worn off, and I am in awe of the beauty of my natural surroundings every day. The people here are warm and welcoming and have made me feel so at home even though I am currently about six hours away from my hometown.
What has been your most impactful experience at W&L?
I also believe that home is where my friends are. My first year here I met some of my best friends through my pre-orientation trip, my residence hall, classes, involvements and my sorority. Throughout my sophomore year, these relationships have remained strong, and I have a support system constantly by my side. The Speaking Tradition and Honor System also remain strong and create an atmosphere of trust and care across campus.
What was your favorite class?
EcoWriting with Professor Leah Naomi Green. This class focused on reading and writing environmental literature, especially poetry. Every week we would go on long “expeditions” where we would read and write poetry, often in a natural setting. My favorite adventures were to Cole Mountain and Apple Orchard Falls. On these expeditions we would write our own poems or prose, which we would later bring to class to workshop in an open discussion with our professor and classmates. It was such an amazing experience enabled by W&L’s unique curriculum, passionate teachers and beautiful location here in the mountains.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.