W&L News OfficeOctober 25, 2023
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
I’ve been with the university for a little more than two years.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
The Liberty Hall Ruins and the gazebo area.
Q. Where did you grow up?
I grew up right here in Lexington.
Q. What advice do you have for students (or parents)?
Time management is crucial to success.
Q. What’s your favorite thing to do when you’re not working?  
I enjoy running or walking the Chessie Trail, the two campuses, or just around town.
Q. If you could live anywhere, where would you build your dream home? 
Fortunately, I am living in my dream home. Right outside Lexington, on top of a hill, with a beautiful view of the mountains and sunsets.
Q. Who most inspires you?
My wife, daughter and sister.
Q. What book are you reading now? 
“Back Roads to March” by John Feinstein
Q. What music are you listening to these days?
Mostly classic rock and 80’s alternative, new wave
Q. What is your favorite film (movie) of all time?
“Miracle” – the story of the 1980 U.S. Hockey team.
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
I usually visit ESPN.com and npr.org. Both are good sources for quick sports news and news in general.
Q. If they made a movie about your life, who would play you? 
Danny DeVito
Q. Which historical figure do you most identify with and why?
Franklin Delano Roosevelt. He always tried to stay optimistic and maintain a sense of humor during good times and bad.
Q. If you could have coffee with one person, who would it be and why? 
My deceased mother. I would love just to chat and share some laughs and share stories of her granddaughter with her.
Q. What is your desert island food? 
Mac and Cheese
Q. Tell us something most people don’t know about you. 
I proposed to my wife on the steps of University Chapel.
Q. What is your secret talent? 
I’ve been told I help people feel at ease.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.