W&L News OfficeMay 31, 2023
Q. How long have you worked at W&L? 
I began working at W&L in January of 2018.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus? 
Without a doubt it is the Colonnade. I love its beauty, its history and its grandeur. I often walk before work or late afternoons when its quiet. It can be a peaceful spot.
Q. What advice do you have for students (or parents)? 
Absorb every minute, it goes by so fast. Fill your memory bank until it overflows.
Q. What’s your favorite thing to do when you’re not working?
I love anything to do with plants and gardening. I’m admittedly not the best at it, but it brings me joy. I also LOVE antiquing.
Q. Who most inspires you?
My mother inspires me most. She is the hardest working, most resilient human being I’ve ever known.
Q. What book are you reading now?
Just finished The Lincoln Highway by Amor Towles. But my favorite book is The Four Agreements by Don Miguel Ruiz. It changed my life.
Q. What music are you listening to these days?
Bryan Elijah Smith … on repeat.
Q. Your favorite film (movie) of all time?
The Shawshank Redemption.
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
Sadly, Google. It’s seemingly the quickest way to find information. Coming in second is Amazon.
Q. If you could have coffee with one person, who would it be?
I would love to have coffee with Grace Killelea, who wrote the book “The Confidence Effect.” She has powerful messaging for women and the importance of building confidence – I have so many questions, it would be such an incredible opportunity to talk in person.
Q. What is your desert island food?
Cherry or orange flavored lifesavers – they are always in my pocket, it is a true addiction.
Q. Tell us something most people don’t know about you.
I love to flip furniture – taking something that is old, worn, used or outdated and breathing new life into it.
Q. What is your secret talent?
I am pretty decent at the art of Pysanky, also known as Ukrainian Easter eggs. My mother-in-law taught me how and I often create them throughout the year for other occasions besides Easter.
Q. Anything else you’d like to share?
I am a collector of quotes! Feel free to send me your favorite. My most recent addition: “If you don’t go after what you want, you’ll never have it. If you don’t ask, the answer is always no. If you don’t step forward, you’re always in the same place.”

													You must be logged in to post a comment.