W&L News OfficeNovember 1, 2023
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
I just started with the university this fall.
Q. What courses are you teaching this term?
I am teaching Dynamic Earth: Introduction to Geology with Field Emphasis and Planetary Geology.
Q. What is your favorite course to teach, and why?
I have absolutely enjoyed teaching Dynamic Earth so far! My favorite part has been getting out in the field with students to explore the geology in and around Lexington.
Q. What is the most satisfying aspect of teaching?
Having students ask great questions in class and in the field that shows their comprehension of the processes! I love it when they get that “aha!” moment.
Q. What do you like most about working at W&L?
How engaged and willing to learn the students are.
Q. What’s your favorite thing to do when you’re not working?
Hiking and exploring the outdoors.
Q. Where did you grow up?
We call it the “garden city”– my sweet little hometown is Belmopan, Belize.
Q. When you were a child, what did you want to be when you grew up?
I didn’t quite know. I just knew that I loved science and being outside.
Q. Who inspired you to teach? What about them inspired you?
I kind of fell into teaching. While I was doing my Ph.D, I was a teaching assistant and guest lecturer, and I just developed a love for it.
Q. What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
As an undergraduate, I did an internship in South Africa and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Q. What book are you reading now?
“I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings” by Maya Angelo.
Q. What music are you listening to these days?
Soca and dancehall music are my go-to.
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
Probably google maps, trying to map out field sites and learn the area.
Q. If you could have coffee with one person, who would it be and why?
My grandmother. I never got to meet her, but I would have loved to.
Q. If you could live anywhere, where would you build your dream home?
An over-the-water bungalow on Tobacco Caye in Belize.
Q. What is your favorite film (movie) of all time?
Coming to America!
Q. If they made a movie about your life, who would play you?
I would hope Issa Ray.
Q. What is your desert island food?
Hot-cross bun!
Q. Tell us something most people don’t know about you.
I’m extremely accident prone. I’m always tripping or twisting something.
Q. What is your secret talent?
Finding the most pleasure in the simplest things in life. Almost nothing ever bothers me.
Q. Anything else you’d like to share?
Family is very important to me and we’re very close.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.