W&L News OfficeApril 4, 2023

Name: Freddie Tobeason
Major: Business administration and management
Hometown: New York, New York
Why did you choose to come to W&L?
I came to W&L because I wanted to play field hockey at a school that has rigorous academics, as well as a great social scene. I found that I could really balance my academic, athletic and social life here. Also, it is the most beautiful campus to go to for four years.
What are you most looking forward to during your time at W&L?
As a senior, I’m really looking forward to making the best of the rest of my time here. I really want to explore Lexington and the surrounding area more by going on hikes and doing classic Lexington traditions that I haven’t gotten around to yet — like going to Hull’s Drive-In!
What has been your greatest accomplishment since arriving at W&L?
I’m not sure what my greatest accomplishment has been yet, but one of my most unforgettable moments here was winning the ODAC conference tournament in field hockey last year!
Who at W&L has been most inspiring to you so far?
My friends have inspired me the most at W&L. I feel like I have met lots of different people with unique interests, and seeing them each work towards their goals in life inspires me to work towards my own.
What inspires you?
My friends and family inspire me the most. They are all hard-working individuals that I look up to everyday, who also believe in me and help me work towards my goals constantly.
What are your hobbies/interests?
At W&L, I’m a student-athlete, which is a major identifier for me. I play on the field hockey team and am also the president of the 24 student-athlete club. Outside of those, I love being outdoors, swimming, taking walks, enjoying long meals with friends, playing card games, cooking (predominantly dinner and dessert), and playing tennis or golf in Lexington with friends!
What book has made the most significant impact on your life?
To date, my favorite book I have read has been “Little Fires Everywhere.” I’m not sure in which ways it has impacted my life, but I will always recommend it to a friend to read.
If they made a movie about your life, who would play you?
I would be honored if Mila Kunis played me. We both have brown hair and brown eyes, and I love her delivery and comedy.
What is your desert island food?
A breakfast platter from Coop (scrambled eggs and bacon).
What is your favorite movie?
“Shawshank Redemption” or “Shutter Island.”
When you were a child, what did you want to be when you grew up?
I really wanted to be a veterinarian.
If you could have a conversation with anyone, who would it be and why?
I would have a conversation with my dog, Stella. I think she would teach me a lot about enjoying the little things in life, and I’d love to have her tell me what she sees when she barks at what seems like nothing.
Tell us a fun fact about yourself?
I used to live on a farm in Westchester, New York.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.