W&L News OfficeApril 9, 2024

Emma Scott ’26
Hometown: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Majors/minors: Environmental science and global politics double major; poverty and human capability studies minor
Why did you choose to come to W&L?
During my college application process, Washington and Lee’s motto, “not unmindful of the future,” resonated with me. I chose the global politics and environmental studies majors because I believe that the subject areas are incredibly intertwined and face a turbulent future. I also knew that W&L’s small class sizes would help me to develop better relationships with my peers and professors, enhancing my educational experience. Ultimately, I knew that a liberal arts education at W&L, with a focus on these important subjects, would prepare me for success in a changing world regardless of my career path.
Where is your “home” on campus?
My “home” on campus is the Mattingly House. I met some of my closest friends in the basement of Mattingly during my POV 101 class fall of my first year. I am also a member of Campus Kitchen Leadership Team, which operates out of Mattingly and Campus Kitchen in the basement of the Global Service House. I know that every time I walk into Mattingly or take a study break in the living room I will be greeted by the friendly faces of my friends and staff in the Shepherd Program who are always there to support me and challenge me with deep, ethical questions!
What has been your most impactful experience at W&L, either on or off-campus?
I had an amazing experience in my Spring Term course, Lakota Land Culture, Economics, and History (ECON 286), last spring. On campus, we learned about Lakota culture and cosmology, treaties and laws, approaches to governance, and economic development. This prepared us for the following two weeks in South Dakota where we stayed on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, visited sacred sites throughout the Black Hills and met with many members of the tribe who taught us about their culture. Even though I did not know anyone in the class at first, we grew incredibly close over Spring Term, and this year we got together for a reunion dinner. I know that I never would have experienced anything like this outside of W&L’s Spring Term.
What are your hobbies/interests? How has W&L helped you develop and pursue them?
As an environmental studies major, I am certainly interested and passionate about the outdoors. W&L, through Compost Crew and the Outing Club, has helped me to expand my interest in the outdoors in ways I never could have expected. Our great team of composters works hard every night to collect compost from all of the dining locations on campus. I don’t think many students are aware that we collected over 50,000 pounds of compost last semester; it’s great to know that we are keeping it out of the landfill! Also, I have had amazing experiences with the Outing Club. I have become a much better rock climber, even though I still have a lot of progress to make, and I have gone on two amazing water-caving trips.
Have you studied abroad during your time at W&L? Where did you go, and how was your experience?
I have not studied abroad yet, but I am going to Portugal and Spain for Spring Term this year, and I will be participating in the London Internship Program this summer. The Spring Term course is ROML 297 – Walking the Portuguese Caminho de Santiago. We will be starting in Porto, Portugal, and walking 144 miles over three weeks to Santiago de Compostela, Spain. Then, a few weeks later, I will be leaving for London where I will be taking a class on contemporary British politics and working a 20-hour-per-week internship. I am super excited about these unique experiences!

													You must be logged in to post a comment.