By Law CommunicationsSeptember 20, 2023
Ashley Evans joined W&L Law in November 2022 as the Head of Collection Services for the Law Library. She is originally from Sevierville, Tennessee. She received her law degree from the University of Kentucky and her Masters in Information Science from the University of Tennessee. After graduating, she moved to Anchorage, Alaska to work as the Public Services Librarian for the Alaska State Court Law Library. She now resides in Buena Vista, Virginia, with her cats and 2-year-old daughter, Matilda.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
My favorite place on campus is the Woods Creek Trail. It’s quiet and serene and easy to forget you’re in the middle of a university campus. I love walking down there on my lunch break and pretending I’m out in the wilderness.
Q. What is your favorite thing to do when you are not working?
I love being in nature, so when I’m not at work you can often find me at a park or exploring the mountains. I also spend a lot of time touring the local playgrounds with my daughter.
Q. Book/Podcast/TV Show Recommendation?
The most recent show I fell in love with is The Lost Flowers of Alice Hart on Amazon. It’s the story of Alice Hart (Alycia Debnam-Carey) who is sent to live with her grandmother (Sigourney Weaver) on a flower farm after her parents tragically die in a house fire. It’s emotional, heart-wrenching, and a bit mysterious. Both the cinematography and the acting are powerful to watch. I cried during every single episode, yet couldn’t wait to watch the next one. Trigger warning for domestic violence.
Q. Who inspired you to teach?
My 4th grade teacher, Mrs. White, was my favorite teacher of all time. She was fun, engaging, kind, and I loved being in her class. I went back and forth on what I wanted to do when I grew up, but I always had Mrs. White in the back of my mind. I still think of her sometimes when I’m teaching and hope I can provide even a fraction of the inspiration that she did.
Q. What courses are you teaching this semester?
I’m teaching 2 sections of Legal Research. We’ve restructured the Legal Research course this year, so I’m excited to start with a new clean slate.
Q. If you could have coffee or tea with one person, who would it be and why?
I would love to talk to my maternal grandmother. She died a couple years before I was born, so I never got a chance to know her. I’ve grown up with stories about what a sweet woman she was and the family still talks about her cooking. I would love to just chat about her life, my life, and get some of her secret recipes.
Q. What is an accomplishment you are proud of?
I’m proud of the accomplishments I’ve made in my career. I started law school not realizing that law librarianship even existed and since then I’ve graduated law school, graduated library school, moved across the continent twice, and secured a great job at a great university.
Q. Favorite food/restaurant/drink?
My favorite restaurant was Stefano’s Pizza in Knoxville. It was a staple on the UT campus strip for over 40 years before being demolished last year to make room for apartment buildings. It was a true hole-in-the-wall, but they had the best pizza around. They moved to a new location on the other side of town, but it’s not the same without the same old furniture and Pac-Man machine that had been there my whole life.
Q. Most used/enjoyable app on your phone?
I use Spotify all day long, every single day. I love listening to all kinds of music and discovering new artists. It’s on in the car during my commute, in my headphones while I’m working, on the speakers while I’m doing chores at home. I almost always have some background music playing and would be truly lost without Spotify.
If you know any W&L staff who would be great profile subjects, tell us about them! Nominate them for a web profile.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.