W&L News OfficeApril 19, 2023
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
I have been at W&L for 10 years.
Q. What do you like most about working at W&L?
Being a part of the W&L team that supports students, faculty, alums and other support staff. We also live in a beautiful area.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
It would have to be the campus lawn with the mature trees.
Q. Where did you grow up?
I was born in Ft. Wayne, Indiana and grew up in Indianapolis.
Q. What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
With some college friends, we pushed my mom’s minivan for a few miles in remote Wyoming after running out of gas because we didn’t want to wait two hours for a previous gas station to open.
Q. If you could live anywhere, where would you build your dream home?
Not sure if I am trying to fight the “grass is greener” mentality, but Rockbridge County is a beautiful place to live. It is easy to get sucked into the rat race anyplace, but I feel like location and surroundings play a part in being content.
Q. Who most inspires you?
My kids: Adi, Emma, Joshua, Caleb and Afton. My wife April is a hard-working mother and teacher that uses her gift in hospitality as an Airbnb Superhost. Our kids are picking up on her others above self mindset.
Q. What book are you reading now?
Sadly, I need to pick one up.  ”Love and Justice“ by Maya Moore and Jonathan Irons is at the top of my reading list. Wendell Berry is the author I check out the most from W&L’s library. “Peace of Wild Things” is so good.
Q. Your favorite film (movie) of all time?
Hoosiers, I was one of over 41,000 fans to watch a high school basketball game in 1990. My dad used to take us to high school sectional games at Hinkle Fieldhouse and state championship games at the Hoosier Dome.
Q. If they made a movie about your life, who would play you?
Someone with a large head. The movie would include a scene with a pushy hat salesperson in Jamaica that says “I can’t believe” when responding to the challenge of locating a hat that fits the character’s head.
Q. Which historical figure do you most identify with and why?
John Adams – he worked his farm and land himself. I respect his commitment to principle over popularity in defending the enemy.
Q. What is your desert island food?
Egg sandwich with bacon and avocado. Hopefully the island has avocados growing.
Q. Tell us something most people don’t know about you.
I met my wife in a juvenile detention center. April would probably want me to mention that she was a volunteer. I was too.
Q. What is your secret talent?
I was a fourth grade pancake eating contest champion.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.