W&L News OfficeOctober 4, 2023
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
I have worked at W&L since August 2010, so this is my 14th year.
Q. What do you like most about working at W&L?
Meeting new people, the alumni are awesome and getting to know the students.  Wonderful, friendly staff at the school.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
Hands down I’d say the tennis courts and the tennis center.
Q. Where did you grow up?
I grew up on a farm 12 miles out of Lexington.  I am one of eight children.
Q. What advice do you have for students (or parents)?
Be yourself and make the most of the college experience.
Q. What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
I do not like heights and I rode the Ferris Wheel once and got stuck upside down – and lost my money out of my pocket – but I survived!
Q. What’s your favorite thing to do when you’re not working?
I like to play tennis, read, take pictures of campus and the area, and I like spending time with my family.
Q. If you could live anywhere, where would you build your dream home?
I am happy and blessed to be where I am so this area is great.
Q. Who most inspires you?
My Children.
Q. What book are you reading now?
I just finished a Louis L’amour western and am getting ready to start Mitch Albom, “The Five People You Meet In Heaven.”
Q. What music are you listening to these days?
Lynn Anderson “Bridges” and a classic pop CD that I made.
Q. Your favorite film (movie) of all time?
Well, I have four favs. They are “Jurassic Park,” “Rooster Cogburn,” “IT” and “A Christmas Carol” – either the 1938 or 1951 version.
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
Almost Daily for morning inspiration I read the King James Bible Online.
Q. Which historical figure do you most identify with and why?
Perhaps Ben Franklin – I admire how he tried new things and was curious to know more and do more.
Q. If you could have coffee with one person, who would it be and why?
That’s a hard question. Perhaps George Washington. As a big fan of history, I would like to know more of how he approached leading a fledgling army against Britain and the obstacles in his way being the new president of a new country.
Q. What is your desert island food?
Chicken nachos, watermelon and black licorice or jelly beans.
Q. Tell us something most people don’t know about you.
I have been on TV twice and on the radio once – in my younger days. Also, I am a lifelong Dallas Cowboy fan!
Q. What is your secret talent?
I am a decent cook and I like to paint, but am not great at it.
Q. Anything else you’d like to share?
I have enjoyed my time working at the university store and the school. It is truly “A Place Like No Other” and I have met a lot of wonderful folks here.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.