W&L News OfficeMay 3, 2023
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
I have worked at W&L for 5.5 years.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
Woods Creek! Growing up in the midwest, it was so flat, the creek just highlights the incredible scenery and depth the campus has.
Q. Where did you grow up?
I grew up in the small town of Marshall, Michigan.
Q. What advice do you have for students?
You will never regret time and energy spent on kindness.
Q. What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
I learned to fly in the midst of the pandemic (I can’t think of a more socially-distant hobby!) and became a fully-licensed private pilot in June 2021.
Q. What’s your favorite thing to do when you’re not working?
I like to tinker and build – I’ve always enjoyed taking something apart to learn how it works, and I like to follow the right to repair movement.
Q. If you could live anywhere, where would you build your dream home?
While I love the mountain scenery in Rockbridge County, I’d build my dream home on one of the Great Lakes.
Q. Who most inspires you?
My 8-month old daughter, Amelia. I want to be my best self for her.
Q. What book are you reading now?
I am nearly finished with “The Dog Stars” by Peter Heller. Next up: “Jesus and John Wayne” by (fellow Michigander) Kristin Kobes Du Mez.
Q. What music are you listening to these days?
I promise that this is not a cop out, but these days I’m all over the place: bluegrass, electronic, ska … Spotify’s algorithm must hate me!
Q. Your favorite film (movie) of all time?
“The Mummy” (1999) – my siblings and I wore out that video cassette.
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
It’s a tie between Reddit and StackExchange. Great online communities still exist off the beaten path.
Q. If they made a movie about your life, who would play you?
Probably Jonah Hill, which works on a lot of levels.
Q. Tell us something most people don’t know about you.
I’m a first generation student, first in my family to pursue and obtain a 4-year college degree.
Q. What is your secret talent?
Quoting “The Office.”

													You must be logged in to post a comment.