W&L News OfficeJune 14, 2023
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
I will have worked at W&L for six years come October.
Q. What do you like most about working at W&L?
W&L is such a wonderful place to work – the people are the best! I feel lucky to have met some wonderful folks since starting here. I’ve also been lucky enough to work with folks that I have known forever. And who doesn’t love how often they feed us!
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
Honestly, walking up the hill every morning. I love looking at the beautiful campus! It distracts me from the panting that I am doing while walking up the hill!
Q. Where did you grow up?
I am from Buena Vista.
Q. What advice do you have for students?
I would encourage students to take advantage of all of the amazing opportunities available here. There are so many opportunities to grow, learn and travel!
Q. What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
I have been skydiving! Without a doubt, that was the most adventurous thing that I will probably ever do!
Q. What’s your favorite thing to do when you’re not working?
I enjoy just hanging out with my family and friends.
Q. If you could live anywhere, where would you build your dream home?
Right here in Rockbridge County and since I’m dreaming, my second home would certainly be near the beach!
Q. Who most inspires you?
My parents have always inspired me. They truly provided me with the wonderful examples of unconditional love and caring for others.
Q. What book are you reading now?
Just finished “Sunrise on Half Moon Bay” – thanks Mary Nicely! I really love to read and knocked out three books while at the beach recently! I enjoy easy reads, so to be honest, you will not catch me reading any great literature! My family would tell you that I can tune out anything if I have a book or my Kindle in my hand.
Q. What music are you listening to these days?
I like a wide variety of music and often shuffle all around but most likely I have the 80s or 90s stations on.
Q. Your favorite film (movie) of all time?
This is so hard – my family would say “Pretty Woman,” because every single time I see it on television, I watch it!
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
Google … it knows EVERYTHING!
Q. If you could have coffee with one person, who would it be and why?
My Dad – he passed away three years ago and not a day goes by that I don’t miss him.
Q. What is your desert island food?
Reese’s cups without a doubt!
Q. Tell us something most people don’t know about you.
I do not have any social media and actually really love the freedom this brings me. Though I will admit every now and then I am out of the loop on things!

													You must be logged in to post a comment.