By Law CommunicationsMarch 13, 2024
Emma Martone is the Administrative Assistant for the Law Library and Law Center. In April, she will join the Development Office as Assistant Director of Annual Giving. Originally from Newport News, VA, Emma relocated to Rockbridge County in 2015. She now calls Lexington home, where she resides with her husband, Matt, and their three beloved dogs: Phineas, Fig, and Lucy.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
I don’t have one particular favorite location on the W&L campus. Instead, I enjoy taking an evening walk with my dogs that starts at Hotchkiss House and loops around to Third Year Housing and back.
Q. What is your favorite thing to do when you are not working?
My favorite thing to do when I’m not working is to spend time outdoors, especially going on walks with our dogs. You’ll often find us enjoying the paths around Boxerwood or the Woods Creek Trail. When we’re feeling adventurous, we enjoy tackling more challenging hikes like Sharp Top, Pete’s Cave, Spy Rock, and many other beautiful trails in the area.
Q. Book/Podcast/TV Show Recommendation?
One book series I’ve been thoroughly enjoying is the Pendergast series by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child. It follows FBI Special Agent Aloysius Pendergast as he investigates bizarre and often supernatural crimes. Each book is filled with gripping plots, intriguing characters, and unexpected twists!
Q. Who inspires you?
Someone who constantly inspires me is my sister, Megan. She embodies resilience and dedication, always pushing herself to excel in every aspect of her life. Megan not only manages her career with dedication but also gracefully balances the responsibilities of motherhood to her two young sons, alongside the support of her loving husband.
Q. If you could have coffee or tea with one person, who would it be and why?
I would have to say my grandfather, PopPop. We’d probably end up getting Bojangles instead, sharing a meal and trading jokes. I would love the opportunity to sit with him, laugh, and share stories about his many great-grandsons.
Q. What is an accomplishment you are proud of?
An accomplishment I’m proud of is when my husband and I bought our house here in Lexington. As first-time homebuyers, it was a pretty stressful experience, but we’re incredibly proud of achieving that milestone.
Q. Favorite food/restaurant/drink?
I absolutely love Katana Sushi and Hibachi. Their sushi rolls are fantastic! I’m thrilled that they’ve opened a food truck here in Lexington. It makes it so convenient to pick up a few rolls whenever we don’t feel like cooking.
Q. Most used/enjoyable app on your phone?
The most used app on my phone is definitely the camera app. I love taking pictures, especially of my dogs. I probably have an embarrassing number of dog photos stored on my phone!
If you know any W&L staff who would be great profile subjects, tell us about them! Nominate them for a web profile.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.