By Law CommunicationsApril 24, 2023
Sheryl Salm is the senior legal assistant to both the Advanced Administrative Litigation Clinic (Black Lung) and the Criminal Justice Clinic. This June marks 34 years that Sheryl has worked at the W&L.  She grew up in the Tidewater area of Virginia and moved to Rockbridge County as a young adult.  Sheryl currently lives in Buena Vista, VA with her husband, Bill, and two rambunctious, loveable dogs – Ollie and Rosie.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
The front lawn of Lewis Hall – I love to watch the students playing with their dogs.
Q. What is your favorite thing to do when you are not working?
Enjoying my two playful pups – Ollie and Rosie, 6 and 3, respectively.  They are so full of energy – they are keeping me young.
Q. Book/Podcast/TV Show Recommendation?
Just finished watching The Last of Us – an excellent series on HBO/HBO Max.  Also, anything written by Stephen King.  Just finished Fairytale, but my favorites are Billy Summers and Doctor Sleep.
Q. Who inspires you?
My children.  My son is four years from retirement with the U.S. Army.  My daughter graduated from Furman University last year.  I am so very proud of their accomplishments and am in awe of them.
Q. If you could have coffee or tea with one person, who would it be and why?
My father, who passed away in 1997.  I would love to talk with him about the granddaughter he never knew and the wonderful man my son has become.
Q. What is an accomplishment you are proud of?
Raising two incredible children.
Q. Favorite food/restaurant/drink?
Favorite food would definitely be pizza, and Frank’s in Lexington has the best.
Q. Most used/enjoyable app on your phone?
The Weather Channel app, especially here of late with our ever-changing weather patterns – one day 80 degrees, the next 40 degrees.
If you know any W&L staff who would be great profile subjects, tell us about them! Nominate them for a web profile.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.