W&L News OfficeJanuary 24, 2024
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
This is my 24th year at W&L in my current role. I previously worked at W&L as an intern in sports information and I graduated from here in 1995.
Q. What is your favorite course to teach?
Besides the varsity volleyball season, my favorite class is Spring Term outdoor volleyball. The weather is (usually) great, we play music and the students all have a lot of fun.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus? 
Holekamp Gym, with honorable mentions to the front lawn and the (view from) the press box at Watt Field.
Q. What advice do you have for students? 
You do not know where your journey will take you, so be intentional with each small step along the way and you will end up in a good place.
Q. Where did you grow up? 
Ohio and Pennsylvania.
Q. When you were a child, what did you want to be when you grew up?
An archaeologist (Raiders of the Lost Ark) or an oceanographer. Later on, I wanted to be an engineer.
Q. Who inspired you to become a coach? What about them inspired you? 
I can’t really say I was inspired by a person. I really wanted to coach originally because it was the only way I could continue to compete at a high level.
Q. What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done? 
I moved to Colorado one summer and worked in a casino in an old gold mining town.
Q. What book are you reading now? 
“The Mindful Coach” by Jerry Lynch.
Q. What music are you listening to these days? 
Always classic rock or (older) heavy metal.
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
Workday – in my role as associate director of athletics for finance, I have a constant flow of workday duties to attend to.
Q. If you could have coffee with one person, who would it be and why? 
I don’t drink coffee (or any hot beverages), but if I did, I would like to sit down with Bill Belichick to ask him how he was able to get professional athletes to buy into the team before self mentality.
Q. If you could live anywhere, where would you build your dream home?  
A house boat in either the Florida Keys or the Pacific Northwest.
Q. What is your favorite film (movie) of all time?  
“Bull Durham” with “The Shawshank Redemption” a very close second.
Q. If they made a movie about your life, who would play you? 
If you ask others, it would probably be Nicolas Cage since many people have told me I look like him.  If I got to pick, it would have to be Patrick Swayze!
Q. What is your desert island food? 
Peanut Butter
Q. Tell us something most people don’t know about you.
I ate the same foods for breakfast, lunch and dinner Monday through Friday for about three years straight when I was a bachelor in my mid-20s.
Q. What is your secret talent? 
I’m pretty good at solving Sudokus.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.