By Erica TurmanNovember 3, 2021
Daniel K. Afosah, assistant professor of chemistry, joined the Washington and Lee University faculty in 2021. His research interests are primarily in the areas of biochemistry and medicinal chemistry, and his current research interests involve developing and studying new chemical entities that will be useful in inflammatory disease conditions such as cystic fibrosis, emphysema and COPD.
His newest project will focus on developing a novel class of molecules that target human neutrophil elastase and cathepsin G, which are important inflammatory proteases.
Afosah earned his bachelors of pharmacy and master’s in pharmaceutical analysis and quality control from Kwame Nkrumah University of Science in technology in Kumasi, Ghana. He earned his doctorate in medicinal chemistry from Virginia Commonwealth University.
What first attracted you to Washington and Lee University?
The academic excellence of the institution and the increased commitment to creating a more diverse environment.
What are you teaching this fall? 
This fall I am teaching Biochemistry I (CHEM-342).
Aside from teaching, what’s something that you’re passionate about? What do you do for fun?
I have a passion for community engagement activities, particularly those related to education and health outreach. I enjoy watching and playing sports, traveling to new places, cooking and spending time with family and friends.
As a student, what was the best piece of advice you were given?
To learn to pardon myself if I make mistakes, because making mistakes is part of the learning process.
What is your favorite movie or book? Why?
My favorite book is ‘Things Fall Apart” by Chinua Achebe. Though a work of fiction, the book creatively depicts historical occurrences. I was particularly awed by Achebe’s brilliant storytelling and portrayal of the rich Igbo culture.
Share a fun fact about yourself.
I am a fan of magic, and I watch magic shows with the aim of figuring out the tricks.
If you know any W&L faculty who would be great profile subjects, tell us about them! Nominate them for a web profile.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.