By Law CommunicationsAugust 18, 2023
Jane Pultz is the Dining Shift Supervisor for the Brief Stop located in the law school.  She has worked at W&L Law since 1997.  Jane is originally from Rockbridge County, attended Bridgewater College, and has also lived in Texas and Italy.  She has two children, Taylor and Samantha.  Jane was awarded the Staff Member of the Year Award by the law student body in 2023.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus? 
My favorite space on campus is the 2nd floor of Hillel House. Over the years since its establishment in 2010, I’ve had the pleasure of helping at the E. Café, which allowed me to wander and appreciate its art and serenity.
Q. What is your favorite thing to do when you are not working?
When I’m not working, I’m usually involved with something at home on the farm. I love gardening and being outside. Summer keeps me busy vegetable growing, harvesting, and preserving. I like to start my own seeds, which begins usually in March for spring planting. I find the whole seed starting process fascinating. I have a rescue Italian Greyhound named Pixie, that keeps me alerted if anyone or any animal should come on the property.
Q. Book/Podcast/TV Show Recommendation?
I don’t generally listen to many podcasts. I do follow a few cooking and gardening groups like Christopher Kimball’s Milkstreet, the Sporkful, and Old World Garden Farms.
Q. Who inspires you?
I am constantly inspired by my law school coworkers, professors and law students. What a privilege it is to work at such a special place.
Q. If you could have coffee or tea with one person, who would it be and why?
I would love to a have tea with my great grandmother who resided on the homestead where I currently live.
Q. What is an accomplishment you are proud of?
I am very proud of my children and the individuals they have become.
Q. Favorite food/restaurant/drink?
My favorite coffee shop is RND Coffee Lounge in Roanoke. I love their Dutch Mocha Latte.
Q. Most used/enjoyable app on your phone?
WDBJ Weather!
If you know any W&L staff who would be great profile subjects, tell us about them! Nominate them for a web profile.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.