W&L News OfficeApril 10, 2024
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
I have been with W&L for 21 years.
Q. What courses are you teaching this term?
Statistics, Advanced Methods in Attention
Q. What is your favorite course to teach, and why? 
Probably Statistics. The course meets six hours per week. It’s both fun and rewarding getting to know the students really well and seeing their skills and confidence grow across the term.
Q. What do you like most about working at W&L?
The community. It’s a pleasure getting to know everyone and having repeated interactions.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
The Dell Outdoor Classroom.
Q. What advice do you have for students?
Explore what excites you and commit, then give yourself permission to change your mind in favor of new passions as they present themselves. Students sometimes get caught up in trying to wear too many hats – try just wearing one for a while and enjoy.
Q. What’s your favorite thing to do when you’re not working?
I enjoy mountain biking.
Q. Where did you grow up?
Mobile, Alabama
Q. When you were a child, what did you want to be when you grew up?
Neurosurgeon (happy to not be one!)
Q. Who inspired you to teach? What about them inspired you?
Dr. Sandra Sprayberry, a literature professor in college. Her course on Native American literature was a combination of literature, philosophy and living. I was obsessed with the course, and only later realized that it became a model in some ways for how I teach my own.
Q. What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
Getting lost (or almost lost) in woods after dark. Something to always be avoided, but it has happened a couple of times. I imagine the “Terror -> Relief” experience must be similar to those big roller coasters, but I wouldn’t know (you won’t ever catch me on a roller coaster).
Q. What book are you reading now?
“The Book of Delights” by Ross Gay
Q. What music are you listening to these days?
I’m currently listening to The Steeldrivers a lot.
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
Google news, Zillow and Workday! — No joy here!
Q. If you could have coffee with one person, who would it be and why?
This question is hard, but I’m going to just go with a fun one – Jason Momoa. Not for his acting, but his interests in travel and adventure. We also share the hobbies of axe throwing and rock climbing.
Q. If you could live anywhere, where would you build your dream home?
I’m currently just looking for a house to buy in Lexington! But, if anyone has a three-bedroom, two-bath house on a couple of wooded acres within 20 minutes of campus, that would be dream enough for me.
Q. What is your favorite film (movie) of all time?
I love movies, but that’s kinda like asking what’s your favorite song. I am a huge fan of “West World” and “Game of Thrones.”
Q. If they made a movie about your life, who would play you?
Edward Norton – love his acting and a student once commented that there’s a resemblance.
Q. What is your desert island food?
I do love survival shows, so I would have to go with a casserole that contains protein, carbs and veggies – maybe chicken and dumplings.
Q. Tell us something most people don’t know about you.
I’m into wooden pencils, though this being a small community, it’s not a well-kept secret at this point.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.