W&L News OfficeApril 11, 2023

Name: David Li
Major: Biochemistry
Hometown: Irvine, California
Why did you choose to come to W&L?
While it was W&L’s small classes and personalized education — alongside the opportunity to further my career track — that initially attracted me to the school, as I learned more about W&L, I was increasingly impressed by its emphasis on experiential learning and a well-rounded education. Given my interests in medicine, I was ecstatic to discover W&L’s plentiful pre-med summer programs, and its 91% medical school acceptance rate demonstrates both the rigor of a W&L education and an environment where pre-med students thrive. Unique quirks such as the honor code and the alluring small-town feel of Lexington made W&L an intriguing and top-choice institution to spend my college years.
What are you most looking forward to during your time at W&L?
Whether it’s taking classes that challenge my perceptions, going on runs in the trails, or having meaningful one-on-one talks with professors, I’m excited to take advantage of the plentiful opportunities that W&L’s location and curriculum have to offer to grow as a person and further my academic career.
What has been your greatest accomplishment since arriving at W&L?
Presenting my summer research during Parents and Family Weekend was probably one of the most memorable experiences at W&L. Being able to discuss my research with individuals who were experts in different disciplines provided me with unique perspectives I would not have seen otherwise.
Who at W&L has been most inspiring to you so far?
Ever since I got here, Coach Uhl has been both a role model and the textbook definition of an inspiring leader. He motivates me to push myself past my limits and gives me the confidence I need to believe in myself to be better.
What inspires you?
My parents — they were both immigrants and built respectable careers from close to nothing while raising my brother and me.
What are your hobbies/interests?
In my free time, I enjoy photography, running track and field, and watching and playing basketball.
What book has made the most significant impact on your life?
“When Breath Becomes Air” is a true story about a young, decorated doctor faced with terminal cancer. The book examines the age-old question of the meaning of life and has influenced how I want to live my life.
What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
During senior year of high school, my friends and I wanted to go snowboarding one night, so we just spontaneously grabbed our gear, drove to a nearby mountain and camped there for two days.
If they made a movie about your life, who would play you?
No idea, but I would want Tom Holland to. That would likely get people to actually watch the movie, and he could probably portray me in a way that’s more flattering than I actually am.
What is your desert island food?
Acai bowls.
What is your favorite movie?
My favorite movie will have to be “Pokémon: The First Movie.” This is the first movie I remember watching, and ever since I was a kid, Pokémon has been one of my favorite shows, with Pikachu being my favorite character.
When you were a child, what did you want to be when you grew up?
My first dream job was to be a garbage truck driver. I was fascinated with how the trucks worked, and garbage collection day used to be my favorite day of the week.
If you could have a conversation with anyone, who would it be and why?
Pete Davidson. He seems like a funny and down-to-earth kind of guy, and I love laughing.
Tell us a fun fact about yourself?
I went to elementary and middle school in Shanghai, China.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.