By Law CommunicationsMay 9, 2023
Jenny Mitchell is the Archivist and Special Collections Librarian and has worked at W&L Law since July 2020. Jenny moved here from Baton Rouge, Louisiana but grew up in Pulaski County, Virginia and attended Radford University and Virginia Tech. She lives in Buena Vista with her husband, Kirk, and their cat, Oliver.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
This is such a beautiful campus that it is difficult to pick just one spot, but I would say the Liberty Hall ruins. I am a history nerd, and I just think it is neat that the stone walls are still standing and preserved for everyone to see.
Q. What is your favorite thing to do when you are not working?
I am usually working on several partially finished crafting projects at any given time. I really enjoy sewing and tatting lace. I have also been working on teaching myself to crochet with limited success, but I think I will get the hang of it eventually.
Q. Book/Podcast/TV Show Recommendation?
I just finished The Diplomat on Netflix, and I definitely recommend it! It has a very West Wing-ish vibe except people stand still when they talk. I also love Ted Lasso, but I have been watching it with my Mom so I am usually an episode or two behind (so no spoilers!). I do not really follow very many podcasts but always try to listen to the latest season of Slow Burn from Slate. My reading tastes have varied quite a bit, but right now I am reading Mary Roach’s most recent book, “Fuzz.” Her writing is really funny, and she covers somewhat mundane topics in a way that makes them super entertaining. I love all of her books but “Packing for Mars” is probably my favorite.
Q. Who inspires you?
My older sister, Laura. We have always been really close and have a lot of the same interests, except she thinks my work as an archivist is extremely boring. She worked in Special Collections at Virginia Tech before I did, and I will admit they put her on the most tedious project imaginable so I get it. But she is an elementary school teacher, which is completely nuts! She taught kindergarteners computer code on Zoom during the pandemic. I have no idea how someone even does that, but somehow she managed. She has endless patience and is my favorite person to hang out with.
Q. If you could have coffee or tea with one person, who would it be and why?
Some of my old co-workers from Louisiana State University: Luana, Caroline, and Anne. I moved during the pandemic and was basically alone in the building on my last day. I really missed out on the opportunity to say goodbye, and they were so fun to work with. I miss having folks around to talk shop.
Q. What is an accomplishment you are proud of?
Probably my career, in general. I got where I am with a fair amount of luck, but there was a lot of work involved as well. Success in this profession does not come easily, but I get to live where I want and do what I love, which makes me extremely fortunate.
Q. Favorite food/restaurant/drink?
There are a lot of good restaurants in this area, but I would say Foot of the Mountain Café in Buchanan is my current favorite. I have a weakness for cheeseburgers, and theirs are really good.
Q. Most used/enjoyable app on your phone?
Other than the alarm clock and notes app, I probably use the photos app the most. I have taken an obscene number of photos of my cat, Oliver. His predecessor, C.J., was always blurry in photos like Bigfoot so I was not able to document his existence as thoroughly, but I have more than made up that deficit with Oliver.
If you know any W&L staff who would be great profile subjects, tell us about them! Nominate them for a web profile.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.