W&L News OfficeMarch 29, 2023
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
I’ve been at W&L for 7.5 years.
Q. What do you like most about working at W&L?
It is certainly not monotonous!
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
The Tea House – it’s always had a calming feel to me.
Q. Where did you grow up?
Catawba, Virginia (about 10 miles outside of Blacksburg).
Q. What advice do you have for students?
Be adventurous and try something new! Across all of our dining venues, we are always showcasing different cuisines or specials. If you don’t end up liking something you can at least say you tried it!
Q. What’s your favorite thing to do when you’re not working?
Finding a new game (board, card, video) to play with my wife when I am able to take off. Also enjoying a good cup of coffee at a local coffee shop (Pronto) really hits the spot for me!
Q. If you could live anywhere, where would you build your dream home?
Anywhere on the beach!
Q. Who most inspires you?
My wife. She is always learning and teaching herself new skills or how to perfect certain things.
Q. What music are you listening to these days?
I’m currently listening to Taylor Swift’s new album, “Midnights.”
Q. Your favorite film (movie) of all time?
“The Secret Life of Walter Mitty.” I love how Ben Stiller’s character goes from such an introverted person and how he finds himself by just experiencing life and all it has to offer.
Q. What is the website you visit most often?
Asana, for sure. It’s our task and event planning tool that we have used for years. It’s what keeps me sane instead of keeping 100 sticky notes on my desk!
Q. If they made a movie about your life, who would play you?
John Krasinski – also known as Jim Halpert from “The Office.”
Q. Which historical figure do you most identify with?
Abe Lincoln – I’m always honest!
Q. If you could have coffee with one person, who would it be?
Jeff Bridges for no other reason than I love his voice. I would just listen to him talk and tell stories.
Q. What is your desert island food?
Chef Chris Vozzo’s pizza.
Q. Tell us something most people don’t know about you.
I met, got engaged to and married my wife within six months! I am still happily married to this day and we are expecting our first child!
Q. What is your secret talent?
Not really anything useful but I have double-jointed fingers that cause crazy flexibility.
Q. Anything else you’d like to share?
I was named after my grandfather who fought in World War II.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.