W&L News OfficeJanuary 3, 2024
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
I have been working at W&L since 1995.
Q. What do you like most about working at W&L?
I love all aspects of my job — something new and exciting around every bend!
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus? 
Lenfest Center lobby, Keller Theatre and Wilson Concert Hall.
Q. Where did you grow up?
Panama City, Florida.
Q. What advice do you have for students?
Kindness and always thinking of others is much more rewarding than thinking of self!
Q. What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
This fall, I returned from a staggeringly unbelievable horse riding vacation destination located in the highlands of central Mexico — no fences, no gates, no limits — just panoramic vistas, endless space and diverse landscapes! Rancho Las Cascadas is surrounded by mountains, forests, flat grasslands and lakes. We rode six hours per day and never went through the same village or location. It’s a magnificent place to explore on horseback at all paces!
Q. If you could live anywhere, where would you build your dream home?
My farm, Somerset Farm, located in Fairfield, Virginia.
Q. What book are you reading now?
I am reading the Bible.
Q. What music are you listening to these days?
Zach Williams, Unspoken and Katy Nichole
Q. Your favorite film (movie) of all time?
“National Velvet” with Elizabeth Taylor.
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
I often visit https://www.globetrotting.com.au/ to plan my next riding adventure.
Q. Which historical figure do you most identify with and why?
Daniel from the Bible. He was known for his wisdom — he was a scholar, dream interpreter and never waivered from his beliefs regardless of consequences.
Q. If you could have coffee with one person, who would it be and why?
Daniel
Q. What is your desert island food?
Ice cream.
Q. Tell us something most people don’t know about you.
My morning begins at 4:30 a.m. in the dairy barn with cows (dairy and south poll cattle). It takes intense organization, lots of mucking and doing menial tasks to keep 20 cows (pets) fed, individually groomed and consistently handled to make superb TAME cows. I love calf season (7-10 calves) and I am becoming an accomplished midwife for the mothers. At 6 a.m., I am off to my boarding barn and to my off-the-track thoroughbred “Danny Boy” to tackle my daily training. I train/ride five or six days per week, and I am constantly learning what I do not know about riding.
Q. What is your secret talent?
Clothing design.
Q. Anything else you’d like to share? 
For 10 years, before coming to Virginia, I owned a sportswear design clothing catalog company.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.