By Law CommunicationsOctober 12, 2023
Christina Querrard is a custodian at Washington and Lee and works in Sydney Lewis Hall. She started at W&L two years ago working with dining. Originally, Christina is from Athens, Greece, but has lived in the U.S. for 24 years. Her husband, Jason, is from St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands, and has worked at Welsh Construction in Lexington for 15 years. They have two children and two grandchildren. Christina loves the natural beauty of Rockbridge County and enjoys working with her team at the law school, led by Janie Hottinger (who Christina would like to note, is an amazing leader of their team). 
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus? 
My favorite spot-on campus is right under the Wilson Field Bridge, on the Woods Creek Trail that runs along it.
Q. What is your favorite thing to do when you are not working? 
My favorite thing to do when I am not at work is playing and walking with my two bichon frisée dogs, Louis and Rosie.
Q. Book/Podcast/TV Show Recommendation?
My favorite book is the Bible. I try to read it once a year from beginning to end, and every year I discover new things. I also love biographies and recently finished the biography of Bertha Von Suttner and all the efforts she put in to creating a peaceful world, and thus winning the Nobel prize in 1907. I also enjoy Agatha Christie movies—especially with Hercule Poirot.
Q. Who inspires you? 
My husband. He is a positive individual who always tries to find good in other people.
Q. If you could have coffee or tea with one person, who would it be and why? 
Agatha Christie—I would  like to know her inspiration and motivation for the over 60 mystery books she wrote.
Q. Favorite food/restaurant/drink?
When it comes to food, I favor fried eggs, with toast, and enjoy a sip of cherry brandy.
If you know any W&L staff who would be great profile subjects, tell us about them! Nominate them for a web profile.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.