By Law CommunicationsFebruary 22, 2024
Anna Fernandez is the Assistant Director of Community and Recruitment for Law Student Affairs and has been at W&L Law since November 2023. Anna came to W&L from Penn State Law where she was the Assistant Director of Admissions and J.D. Diversity Recruitment. She is originally from Puerto Rico and has two children, Bradie Drew and Nathaniel. She lives in Lexington with her 94 year old father and is enjoying getting to know the area with her two dogs.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
I am still getting to know campus and haven’t ventured out much. My favorite location right now is the Marketplace where I get to experience and enjoy so many different types of food.
Q. What is your favorite thing to do when you are not working?
I enjoy taking my dogs out to the Chessie Trail.
 Q. Book/Podcast/TV Show Recommendation?
I really enjoy period dramas (Outlander, The Gilded Age, Bridgerton, Reign, and The Artful Dodger) comedies (Resident Alien, Ted Lasso, Curb Your Enthusiasm, and Its Always Sunny in Philadelphia), and international programs (La Casa de Papel, Shahmaran, and RRR). My go-to Podcasts are Morbid, New Heights and Strict Scrutiny. I just finished reading Trevor Noah’s Born a Crime.
Q. Who inspires you?
My children as they are better versions of me. They are strong, resilient, kind, generous, and have the best sense of humor. They make this world a better place, and I am constantly learning from them.
Q. If you could have coffee or tea with one person, who would it be and why?
I would enjoy having coffee and speaking with Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. She is a strong, smart Latina who is fearless when challenging the status quo and speaking out on important issues such as climate change, women’s reproductive rights, social, criminal, and economic justice, worker’s rights and many more. She is a great role model for women.
Q. What is an accomplishment you are proud of?
It was hard raising two kids as a single mother, while also working full time and going to school. But somehow, I managed to raise kind, thoughtful, hardworking, funny, and caring humans. So, I would say the accomplishment I am most proud of is them.
Q. Favorite food/restaurant/drink?
Locally my favorite restaurant is The Palms. I enjoy their Reuben so much I have not tried any other item on their menu. In general, I enjoy Puerto Rican and Mexican food.
Q. Most used/enjoyable app on your phone?
Currently my most used app on my phone is TikTok. I use it for entertainment but also for law school content. Pages like lsac_official, eastmeetswest, and accesslexinstitute provide important information regarding the LSAT and applying and paying for law school.
If you know any W&L staff who would be great profile subjects, tell us about them! Nominate them for a web profile.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.