W&L News OfficeOctober 11, 2023
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
Come November, I will have been at W&L for one year!
Q. What do you like most about working at W&L?
My coworkers. They are the most hilarious, dynamic and supportive group.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
The development team recently moved offices, and I have thoroughly enjoyed our new front porch for a quick coffee break and people watching.
Q. Where did you grow up?
I grew up on the Eastern Shore of Virginia, which is a small peninsula to the very east of the state. If you’re familiar with the Chincoteague ponies, that’s it!
Q. What advice do you have for students?
For students I would say slow down, slow down, slow down. You will get there in your own time.
Q. What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
To celebrate my high school graduation, I went skydiving with my Dad (sorry Mom)!
Q. What’s your favorite thing to do when you’re not working?
I like to cook, read or dote on my two dogs (Sophie & Huey) and my cat (Freaky Frida).
Q. If you could live anywhere, where would you build your dream home?
Just give me a simple life in an old quaint apartment (preferably by a market) in Italy.
Q. Who most inspires you?
My fiancé, Christopher. He is immensely driven, brilliant, and always encouraging me to be the best version of myself.
Q. What book are you reading now?
“The Prince of Tides” by Pat Conroy. It’s where my mom got the inspiration for my name!
Q. What music are you listening to these days?
Lots of Dusty Springfield, Bob Seger and Lake Street Dive. Also, Ethiopian jazz.
Q. Your favorite film (movie) of all time?
Anything directed by Nancy Meyers, her movies are such a comfort.
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
Good grief, I am obsessed with checking the weather. The moment it is below 80 degrees, I will be a far more tolerable person. Ask anyone in my office.
Q. If they made a movie about your life, who would play you?
Phoebe Waller-Bridge – her facial expressions and delivery are absolutely incredible.
Q. Which historical figure do you most identify with and why?
I don’t think we are all that similar, but Alice Roosevelt Longworth was wonderfully weird, unconventional for her time, and the queen of comebacks with her quick wit (I may identify with her there).
Q. If you could have coffee with one person, who would it be and why?
I lost my father unexpectedly in June and our last encounter was discussing my recent engagement and all its excitement over coffee at LexCo. I would move mountains to have that moment again.
Q. What is your desert island food?
Red curry sounds like an absolutely impractical desert island food, but I would have to have it!
Q. Tell us something most people don’t know about you.
I have attempted to learn Italian approximately 300 times. If you can give me a swift kick in the pants and are looking for a study partner, please reach out.
Q. What is your secret talent?
I’m sure I’ll jinx myself, but I’ve gotten pretty good at walking both of my rambunctious pit-mixes at the same time!
 

													You must be logged in to post a comment.