W&L News OfficeJuly 19, 2023
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
I have been at W&L for 10 years – can’t believe it!
Q. What do you like most about working at W&L?
The people. We have the most amazing students who consistently teach me, which I love. Our colleagues – some of whom have been the best in my whole career.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
The Campus Garden – it’s amazing to see how it’s grown and changed over the years. And to think of all of the hands that have helped there. It’s such a wonderful treasure on back campus.
Q. Where did you grow up?
Virginia born and bred. I spent most of my time in Roanoke and then in Richmond. I consider both to be home.
Q. What advice do you have for students?
A big part of success comes from knowing who and when to ask for help. And just continuing to walk through it all. Then saying thank you to those who helped you along the way, and helping lift others as you can.
Q. What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
I have lots of tattoos … does that count?
Q. What’s your favorite thing to do when you’re not working?
I collect hobbies … baking and cooking, drawing, yoga, reading, playing music and singing, dancing, even a little kickboxing from time to time. Playing in the woods. Legos. Doing all of these things with my sweet family.
Q. If you could live anywhere, where would you build your dream home?
I doubt I’ll ever live outside of the mountains of Appalachia. But if I did, I’d move to Scotland.
Q. Who most inspires you?
I can’t think of a single person. Generally I’m inspired by people who love with their whole heart, aren’t judgmental of those who are different, and strive for a meaningful and thoughtful life. People who love to learn. People who remember to laugh. I’m surrounded by these kinds of folks!
Q. What book are you reading now?
Demon Copperhead by Barbara Kingsolver (thanks to Jane Stewart). And I always have a murder mystery series going. I read a lot.
Q. What music are you listening to these days?
That’s hard to say. I generally oscillate between punk and ska, indie folk and rock, new wave, classical, and a little heavy metal. One of my students made me an electronica playlist, and I’ve been listening to that, too.
Q. Your favorite film (movie) of all time?
The Princess Bride and Nightmare Before Christmas. Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels ranks pretty high, too.
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
Probably King Arthur Flour’s website… for their free, delicious recipes and their web store.
Q. If they made a movie about your life, who would play you?
People have said that I look a little like Judy Greer.
Q. Which historical figure do you most identify with and why?
Bruce Lee. I really appreciate the way he lived his life, the lessons he left us in his writings, his influence on martial arts, and his level of talent and work ethic.
Q. If you could have coffee with one person (living or deceased), who would it be and why?
My grandmother. I’d love to talk with her again now that I have some life under my belt. Just to get another chance to ask her questions about her life. She was wonderful.
Q. What is your desert island food?
Probably fresh bread, seasonal fruit, and aged cheeses.
Q. Tell us something most people don’t know about you.
I started college as a piano performance major.
Q. What is your secret talent?
I can clog (or flat-foot, as we say in the South.)
Q. Anything else you’d like to share?
It’s pronounced Appalachia – like “apple-atch-ya”. No long a’s allowed.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.