W&L News OfficeNovember 8, 2023
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
I just celebrated my one-year anniversary in July!
Q. What do you like most about working at W&L?
It’s a great place to try new things. I feel encouraged to challenge myself with things I might not have done before because there is a tremendous amount of support all across campus.
Q. Where did you grow up?
I grew up in Naples, Florida on the Gulf Coast.
Q. What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
I dropped everything and moved to Thailand for two years and then Poland for four more years, teaching at American schools.
Q. What’s your favorite thing to do when you’re not working?
Trying to keep up with my three young daughters (ages three, two and newborn).
Q. If you could live anywhere, where would you build your dream home?
The Arenal region of Costa Rica.
Q. What music are you listening to these days?
Almost always country – 90s country has a special place in my heart. Too bad Garth Brooks isn’t on Spotify.
Q. What is your favorite film (movie) of all time?
“Indiana Jones: The Last Crusade” or “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off.”
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
Lately it has been IMLeagues.com – speaking of which, don’t forget to register through your OKTA dashboard. 😊
Q. If they made a movie about your life, who would play you?
Matthew Broderick (circa 1986 Ferris Bueller era).
Q. What is your desert island food?
Costco Chocolate Chip Cookies (and not just for the alliteration).
Q. Tell us something most people don’t know about you.
Most people don’t know that I was a scholarship athlete in college – for cheerleading!
Q. What is your secret talent?
Functioning with little to no sleep for extended periods of time – reference my favorite thing to do when I’m not working for context.
Q. Anything else you’d like to share?
I feel so fortunate that this community had a position for me when I most needed it. W&L is a special place; full of special people with really cool stories. It’s important to stop and look around once in a while or we could miss it (Ferris Bueller reference).

													You must be logged in to post a comment.