By Law CommunicationsOctober 17, 2023
Alexi Pfeffer-Gillett joined W&L Law this fall as an assistant professor. He is teaching Civil Procedure in the fall semester and Consumer Protection in the spring semester. His scholarship focuses on procedural and contractual issues affecting consumers and employees. Professor Pfeffer-Gillett is originally from Baltimore, MD.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
I haven’t done a ton of exploring yet, but I’m looking forward to making use of the tennis courts under the bridge near the law school.
Q. What is your favorite thing to do when you are not working?
I really enjoy photography and, when not working, I can often be found wandering aimlessly with my camera (sometimes alongside or lagging behind my wife, son, and dog).
Q. Book/Podcast/TV Show Recommendation?
My most recent recommendation is Dopesick on Hulu, a fantastic and heartbreaking drama about the causes and effects of the opioid epidemic. On top of being a gripping and important tv show with great acting, I’d particularly recommend it to anyone interested in consumer protection, administrative law, healthcare law, and/or criminal procedure (among other areas).
Q. What research are you currently working on?
My current research focuses on the Supreme Court’s treatment of “inconveniences,” particularly in regard to the difficulties and costs faced by consumers and employees bringing individual arbitration claims.
Q. If you could have coffee or tea with one person, who would it be and why?
My dad. He passed away when I was a teenager, and we’d have a lot to catch up on.
Q. What is an accomplishment you are proud of?
I am always hopeful that my scholarship will have some real-world impact. I was very excited to see my last article cited in a recent legal decision ordering Samsung to pay arbitration fees in claims brought by 36,000 consumer plaintiffs.
Q. Favorite food/restaurant/drink?
A few students know my affinity for Subway sandwiches, but for me, nothing beats a good breakfast burrito.
Q. Most used/enjoyable app on your phone?
I’m always trying (unsuccessfully) to cut down on time spent looking at my phone, but the one app I never regret using is Libby, which gives access to millions of library e-books and audiobooks.
If you know any W&L staff who would be great profile subjects, tell us about them! Nominate them for a web profile.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.