W&L News OfficeMay 24, 2023
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
I have been working at W&L for five years.
Q. What do you like most about working at W&L?
It’s hard to pick out one singular thing, but I would say the coaches and student-athletes that I get to work with on a daily basis.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
Either the W&L Fitness Center or any one of the home venues for the teams that I cover.
Q. Where did you grow up?
I grew up in Morris Plains, New Jersey.
Q. What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
While working a previous job in Washington, Pennsylvania, I took a day off of work to go see the Yankees (my favorite team) play the Tigers in Detroit. It was a 7 p.m. game, so I didn’t get back until after 2 a.m. ahead of having to be back in the office later that morning.
Q. What’s your favorite thing to do when you’re not working?
I take my fitness seriously, so I would say my favorite thing is working out.
Q. If you could live anywhere, where would you build your dream home?
I would build on a beach in Hawaii.
Q. Who most inspires you?
My girlfriend Dani.
Q. What music are you listening to these days?
I’d say classic rock and country.
Q. Your favorite film (movie) of all time?
My favorite movie is “Miracle.”
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
I like to visit YouTube to catch up on sports talk shows and podcasts.
Q. If they made a movie about your life, who would play you?
Mel Gibson played William Wallace in “Braveheart.” Does that count?
Q. Which historical figure do you most identify with and why?
I will circle back to the Mel Gibson/William Wallace character from the movie “Braveheart.” For as long as I can remember, people have referred to me as “Braveheart” or even “Freedom” and I hear all the time that I have a great name, which I’m assuming is because of the movie.
Q. What is your desert island food?
Definitely would be pizza.
Q. What is your secret talent?
Probably sports trivia. Either that or the ability to eat massive amounts of food on my “cheat days.”

													You must be logged in to post a comment.