W&L News OfficeNovember 29, 2023
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
I started at W&L in June 2021, so I am currently in my third year.
Q. What do you like most about working at W&L?
My favorite part about working at W&L is the support we can provide our students. Having the opportunity to meet students, get to know them, and help them overcome moments of challenge makes working here feel very rewarding.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
The wooden bridge that leads up to Elrod Commons is my favorite location on campus (and the location of my photo!).
Q. Where did you grow up?
I grew up in Summerville, South Carolina, about 30 minutes from Charleston!
Q. What advice do you have for students?
I advise taking full advantage of the opportunities and resources available to you. Study abroad, take classes that interest you, and find extracurricular activities/organizations that you enjoy. Most importantly, permit yourself to step outside of your comfort zone.
Q. What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
The most adventurous thing I have ever done was moving to Michigan to attend the University of Michigan for graduate school. I went to college in-state at the University of South Carolina, so moving 12 hours away from home to a large school without knowing a single person was a big deal for me at the time. Looking back, I am so thankful I made that choice because it led me to where I am today.
Q. Who most inspires you?
My fiancé, Sarah. She is a second-grade teacher at Central Elementary, and I continue to be inspired by her passion and commitment to teaching children. I may be biased, but it’s hard not to feel inspired by her and the level of care she puts into her work.
Q. What book are you reading now?
I am reading “Good Burdens: How to Live Joyfully in The Digital Age” by Christina Crook.
Q. What is your favorite film (movie) of all time?
It is a toss-up between “Interstellar” and “Inception.” Both movies are thought-provoking and thrilling; I can watch them repeatedly without losing interest.
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
Amazon.com. It has become my go-to website for buying things that I need/want because it’s easier and saves time.
Q. If they made a movie about your life, who would play you?
Alfred Enoch. For the first few months after “How to Get Away with Murder” aired, I would be stopped by random people who swore I looked like him.
Q. Which historical figure do you most identify with and why?
Although I will never truly compare to him, I most identify with W.E.B. Du Bois. He was an extremely hard worker, was the first black man to earn a Ph.D. from Harvard University, and was a civil rights trailblazer in every sense.
Q. If you could have coffee with one person, who would it be and why?
I lost my father five years ago; it was unexpected, and I did not have the chance to say goodbye. I would give just about anything to have one more conversation with him.
Q. What is your desert island food?
Shrimp/Seafood in general.
Q. Tell us something most people do not know about you.
I pride myself on my morning routine. Every morning (M-F), I am up at 4 a.m. (I am in bed by 9 p.m. because sleep is very important!). I have over four hours to have coffee, work on Ph.D. assignments, and even work out.
Q. What is your secret talent?
I recently went skeet shooting for the first time with a group of friends. I assumed I would struggle to hit a single target but was happy to give it my best. Turns out I have a secret talent for shooting because I never missed after two hours of shooting. No one was more surprised than me.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.