W&L News OfficeJune 21, 2023
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
I started working in admissions shortly after graduating from W&L in May 2022.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
I have a million great memories in the Lenfest Center – the atrium is a perfect spot to relax or chat.
Q. Where did you grow up?
I grew up in Columbia – Howard County, Maryland.
Q. What advice do you have for students?
Throughout college, the best thing I did was prioritize myself. I made sure to value my own wellness over anything, and I think that every student should be mindful of how they treat themselves, even in the most stressful times.
Q. What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
I went to Skellig Michael in Ireland and climbed over 600 steep steps to the beehive huts at the very top!
Q. What’s your favorite thing to do when you’re not working?
I am a musician, so I play with the Rockbridge Symphony, the Blue Ridge Brass quintet, and pick up gigs around town.
Q. Who most inspires you?
My sisters! And I think my nieces are growing up to be just as resilient! My family has a lot of girl power.
Q. What book are you reading now?
I tried audiobooks for a bit but that didn’t work for me. I would love to get back into reading, so please send me your suggestions.
Q. What music are you listening to these days?
“Don’t Hate Me” by Lola Young and “Escapism” by Raye with 070 Shake have been stuck in my head.
Q. Your favorite film (movie) of all time?
This is so embarrassing. It is Frozen 2.
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
Lately I’ve been on IGN a lot for when I get stuck while playing “Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom.”
Q. If you could have coffee with one person, who would it be?
Dolly Parton! She is a quiet philanthropist, and I’d like to pick her brain about it.
Q. What is your desert island food?
My mom’s 김치찌개 (kimchi-jiggae) or 떡국 (tteokguk). They can heal anything.
Q. Tell us something most people don’t know about you.
I’m very competitive when it comes to the FitBit workweek hustle competitions I do (getting the most steps) with my Girl Scout counselor friends overseas and back in Maryland.
Q. What is your secret talent?
People don’t know the extent to which I love art. I paint, draw, sing, play piano, make digital art, create earrings, embroider, etc!

													You must be logged in to post a comment.