W&L News OfficeAugust 23, 2023
Q. How long have you worked at W&L?
I have worked at W&L for about a year and 3 months.
Q. What do you like most about working at W&L?
I think my favorite part about working at W&L is the community. It feels like everywhere I go on campus, or even in town, I run into someone I know. I love how everyone speaks to one another and takes the time to get to know you. It truly makes this place special.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
I love the Hotchkiss House porch. It’s the perfect lunch spot!
Q. Where did you grow up?
I’ve lived in Raphine, Virginia for the majority of my life. I love the area so much that my husband and I bought a house less than two minutes from my childhood home.
Q. What advice do you have for students (or parents)?
If you can’t find the sunshine, be the sunshine.
Q. What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
I think by far my greatest adventure yet has been becoming a parent. Nothing has taught me about myself or helped me grow more than being a mom.
Q. What’s your favorite thing to do when you’re not working?
I love to spend my time away from work with my husband, Jarrett, and our daughter, Nora. We spend a lot of time together playing outside in our yard. I also LOVE to host people at our house. We are fortunate to have big families and lots of friends who we enjoy spending time with.
Q. If you could live anywhere, where would you build your dream home?
I would love to build a house in Cape Charles, Virginia. It’s the cutest little beach town.
Q. What book are you reading now?
I’m a big Audiobook fan. I just finished “Happy Place” by Emily Henry.
Q. What music are you listening to these days?
My music is truly all over the place. One minute I’ll be listening to Beyonce and the next “Baby Shark” comes on. Did I mention I have a toddler?
Q. Your favorite film (movie) of all time?
This is a tough one. I love so many different movies. One of my more recent favorites is “Someone Great” on Netflix.
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
I’m embarrassed to admit that it is probably Instagram. There’s just something about Instagram reels that sucks me in every time.
Q. If they made a movie about your life, who would play you? 
Sophia Bush. BIG One Tree Hill fan!
Q. What is your desert island food?
Sushi … feels kind of resourceful.
Q. Tell us something most people don’t know about you.
I love magic tricks.
Q. What is your secret talent?
It’s really not a secret, but my talent is definitely talking to people. I truly love meeting new people every day and getting the chance to talk to them and learn more about them – where they are from, what they are interested in, etc.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.