By Law CommunicationsOctober 24, 2023
Kristy Speers is the Senior Recruitment Coordinator at W&L Law and has served in several roles across campus since her first position with the Outing Club in 2011. She and her family moved to Lexington in 2008 from Yellowstone National Park. Prior to her career in higher education, Kristy worked for the National Park Service (NPS) along with her husband, who is the Chief Ranger of the Appalachian Scenic Trail.
Q. What do you like most about working at W&L?
I love the small town feeling and how working at W&L and living in Lexington blend together.
Q. Where is your favorite location on the W&L campus?
The Law School Patio.
Q. Where did you grow up?
Cincinnati, OH.
Q. What advice do you have for students (or parents)?
Don’t take things personally.
Q. What is the most adventurous thing that you have ever done?
I washed dishes in Antarctica for a winter. The following spring, we bought a car in New Zealand and spent the next three months exploring the islands.
Q. What’s your favorite thing to do when you’re not working?
Reading (preferably by a lake!).
Q. If you could live anywhere, where would you build your dream home?
Cusco, Peru—but my heart is in Lexington. So, I would need two homes.
Q. Who most inspires you?
My mom. Life has dealt her some tough blows but she always has a smile and positive attitude.
Q. What book are you reading now?
“Mary Jane” by Jessica Anya Blau.
Q. What is your favorite film (movie) of all time?
“Out of Africa”
Q. What is the website you visit most often and why?
Yahoo – the “news” is very entertaining. Also, Barnes and Noble because I love my Nook.
Q. If they made a movie about your life, who would play you?
Gosh, I hope that will never happen.
Q. Which historical figure do you most identify with and why?
Jane Goodall. I don’t know if I identify with her, but she had an amazing life.
Q. If you could have coffee with one person, who would it be and why?
Early morning coffee in my parent’s kitchen with my dad because he was hilarious. There is no place I’d rather be!
Q. What is your desert island food?
Any baked good.
Q. Tell us something most people don’t know about you.
I worked for the National Park Service for 14 years before moving to Lexington. The parks were Mt. Rushmore, Mt. Rainier, Denali, Bryce, Zion, Grand Canyon, and Yellowstone. If you need help with your summer vacation, call me!
Q. What is your secret talent?
I can do the Wizard of Oz skip.
If you know any W&L staff who would be great profile subjects, tell us about them! Nominate them for a web profile.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.