The Class of 1994 Office of Inclusion and Engagement supports the university's mission by striving to foster a culture in which all members of the community feel fully welcome and able to participate in everything Washington and Lee has to offer.  Toward this end, OIE develops programs that explore, promote and celebrate the increasingly diverse backgrounds of our students, faculty and staff.
Student Affairs provides discretionary funds and resources for students in times of emergencies. The Angel Fund can provide financial support for students who have experienced a major loss of personal property, death or severe illness of immediate family member, or sudden loss of parental support. The Laptop Lending Program allows students to apply for a temporary laptop loan in times of emergency.
Washington and Lee affirms that diverse perspectives and backgrounds enhance our community. We are committed to the recruitment, enrichment, and retention of students, faculty, and staff who embody many experiences, cultures, points of view, interests, and identities. As engaged citizens in a global and diverse society, we seek to advance a positive learning and working environment for all through open and substantive dialogue.
The W&L Campus Food Pantry aims to alleviate food insecurity among students by providing emergency food to those in need. The Food Pantry is open 24 hours a day and when Elrod Commons is open during breaks and holidays.
Washington and Lee University is committed to providing equal access to educational opportunities to qualified students with disabilities. The University is also committed to ensuring that all individuals have access to information and information technology associated with administration and services, courses of instruction, departmental programs and University-sponsored events.
Washington and Lee University is a community that celebrates and honors students from diverse backgrounds. Our University, along with hundreds of other universities across the country , is committed to supporting all students and their academic pursuits regardless of immigration or citizenship status. 
W&L encourages all members of our community to report incidents of harassment and/or discrimination on the basis of race, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, disability, age, veteran's status, or genetic information.
The Clothes Closet aims to create a safe space to distribute good quality clothing for all needs in confidence to current students. The Clothes Cloest is accessible by appointment only.
The W&L Promise is part of Washington and Lee's strategic initiative to make the distinctive W&L experience affordable to qualified students. Washington and Lee always meets the full demonstrated financial need for any admitted student using a combination of grants, scholarships, and student employment, regardless of the family level of income.
W&L's commitment to diversity is operationalized through intentional programming. The Class of 1994 Office of Inclusion and Engagement as well as various student organizations work to organize programs and events that speak to issues of justice, global citizenship and diversity.
Washington and Lee University is committed to ensuring the success of our students who are first in their family to attend college. We are here to assist you and answer any questions you may have regarding the application process, financial aid, academics, and social life. 
Since their inception in the early 20th century, Historically Black Greek Letter Organizations have enhanced the lives of African American students in higher education. These organizations have developed some of the world's greatest leaders, who are committed to developing their communities and making the world a better place.
The LGBTQ Resource Center supports gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and questioning students through peer counseling, programming, education and advocacy, and students can participate in several LGBTQ campus organizations which also offer programming, support and education.
Students enjoy participating in peer-to-peer education about a variety of topics, and the Class of 1994 Office of Inclusion and Engagement strives to provide as many of these opportunities as possible.
Our student organizations ensure that W&L has a global perspective. Through participation in student organizations, students can build community, engage in social justice, develop leadership skills, and become holistic learners.
The Office of Inclusion and Engagement Newsletter is a monthly email with news, events, and information.
While Washington and Lee University is a non-sectarian institution, we realize that spirituality is a part of a student's holistic development. We provide programs, resources and spaces for all students to learn, grow, and explore.
The Class of 1994 Office of Inclusion and Engagement in partnership with Alumni Affairs has established a mentoring program that connects current Washington and Lee African-American / Black students with alumni. Learn more about this program and apply to serve as a mentor.
International students are jointly supported by the Class of 1994 Office of Inclusion and Engagement and the Center for International Education, which assists with the transition to life in the U.S., helping students attain Visas, prepare tax returns and find a host family for their time in Lexington. There are a number of international student organizations on campus, open to all students, which focus on global awareness and cultural exchange. Students who are interested in global learning and service learning are eligible to live in the University's Global Service House, a theme house that sponsors international- and service-based events throughout the year.
The academic life at Washington and Lee is defined by diversity. What, after all, does one study at a liberal arts college, but difference? The point is to engage difference and learn through that experience. The faculty at Washington and Lee place supreme value on the free and respectful exchange of knowledge, ideas, and thought, whether that takes place in the classroom, the laboratory, the lecture hall, or the many crucial exchanges that happen in the hallways and walkways of a great university.
Understanding that knowledge is power, W&L offers myriad trainings that empower students, faculty and staff to create inclusive environments and lead important discussions surrounding race, class and gender, in and out of the classroom.
The Office of Admissions and Financial Aid is committed to recruiting and enrolling students with diverse backgrounds and interests by engaging with high schools and community-based organizations around the world, as a dedicated QuestBridge partner, and by providing an immersive look at student life with the Diversity & Inclusion Visit Experience (DIVE).
Washington and Lee is committed to making internship, fellowship and opportunities available to all students.
Career and Professional Development offers a wide range of support services to guide students in self-assessment leading to decisions for postgraduate pursuits, and planning experiences and coursework to support those decisions. This office also helps students prepare by assisting with professional documents, networking, internship and employment searches and interview practice.
Loading...

Stop API Hate
Since March of 2020 the number of reported hate/bias incidents against Asian and Pacific Islander (API) people has increased exponentially. However, we cannot truly quantify the number of hate/bias incidents as many incidents go unreported. Members of the API community at W&L encourage you to stand up and speak out to #StopAPIHate.
 
 

In Memoriam: Theodore Carter DeLaney Jr. '85, professor of history emeritus
During his career at W&L, DeLaney brought his passion for justice and inclusion to the classroom and to his scholarship.
Follow OIE on Instagram for announcements, events and photos!
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement