Scott’s passion for the environment carries over from the classroom to opportunities on campus and beyond.
Leading Campus Kitchen, a student-run organization focused on addressing food insecurity, has been a rewarding experience.
W&L students in this Spring Term’s “Swedish Theater” course were immersed in culture during their three weeks in Stockholm, Sweden.
The 2023 Spring Term course "Threats to Democracy" examined the form of government and explored the current challenges it faces.
Washington and Lee’s Class of 2023 includes nine recipients of the Certificate of International Immersion awarded by W&L’s Center for International Education.
Professor of Biology Robert Humston’s Spring Term course takes a deep dive into environmental problem-solving.
Professor of History Mikki Brock’s Spring Term course explores our fascination with the supernatural.
Students and faculty will summarize and display their Spring Term research and coursework.
Students in Elliott King’s Spring Term class, “Modern Art in Barcelona,” are being steeped in Spanish art, history and architecture during an unforgettable educational trip to Barcelona and Madrid.
Students in Michael and Lena Hill’s Spring Term course are discovering what inspired writers of past generations.
In this Spring Term course, Washington and Lee students are making data science look like a walk in the park.
CSI: W&L students are learning forensic science with the help of a real FBI evidence response team.
The performances will take place live and online on May 20 and 21 at 2:30 p.m.
It's the most wonderful term of the year, so keep an eye on @wlunews social media and this post for a daily dose of W&L's deeply engaging four-week term.
Spring Term courses aim to provide innovative, one-of-a-kind educational experiences to W&L students. Online instruction during COVID-19 led to many new opportunities.
Rigorous academics and a nationally ranked soccer program made W&L an ideal fit for Danny Tran '21.
Adriana Corral on her Installation of "Unearthed: Desenterrado" in Rural Virginia
After learning about natural hazards and their impact on society, students in this geology course took a mind-blowing field trip to Mount St. Helens.
In Professor Rob Mish’s Spring Term class, students take on virtually every aspect of creating a fully staged theatrical production. 
Sascha Goluboff's Spring Term class, Cults, took an in-depth look at the development and process behind misunderstood religions.
In Professor David Marsh's Spring Term class, the Blue Ridge Mountains became a living laboratory for the study of salamanders.
Special Topics in American Politics: Minority Rights and Gerrymandering challenged students to redraw the Virginia House and Senate districts to improve the election process.
As part of an immersive Spring Term sociology course, students created a campus-wide event to serve as a real-world study on inclusivity.
Professor Yumiko Naito’s Spring Term class, Cool Japan: Manga, Business Etiquette, Language and Culture, approaches learning in a delicious and hands-on way.
“The House of Yes” is presented through special arrangement with Dramatists Play Service.
In the Genetic Engineering and Society SIn the Genetic Engineering and Society Spring Term class, students focus on the intersection of science, medicine, law, agriculture, ethics and public policy.pring Term class, students focus on the intersection of science, medicine, law, agriculture and public policy.
Although W&L has produced student-cast operas in the past, this is the first time students have been able to enroll in a credit-bearing opera workshop.
Current Advances in Psychological Science: Sleep, Health and Society, a Spring Term course taught by Ryan Brindle, explores the basics of sleep, why people need it, and the impacts of sleep deprivation.
We asked professors to share course materials and discussion questions to offer a sneak peek at the breadth of opportunities available during the best term of the year. 
Students in the Spring Term course Drawing in Place practice observational drawing in a beautiful setting near Lexington.
Our favorite term is well underway! Here is a glimpse inside some of the many fascinating courses being taught off-campus this year.
Professor of Art Christa Bowden's Spring Term course, Antique Photo Processes, focuses entirely on 19th-century photo processes. 
After taking a course at Augusta Correctional Center, two W&L juniors helped to organize an exhibition at the university featuring artwork by artists who are incarcerated. The exhibit is entitled “Unfreedom of Expression.” 
Professor David Harbor and his Spring Term class chased particles of sand from the Blue Ridge Mountains to the Barrier Islands and the high plains of Utah.
Professor Ricardo Wilson's Spring Term class spent 10 days writing short fiction at Skylark Nature Preserve and Lodge in Raphine.
Donald Gaylord's Spring Term class introduced students to archaeological lab methods through hands-on experience, readings and field trips. 
Spring Term allows W&L students to focus intensely on one topic for four weeks, or to create an experience that is unique to their educational path.
Beginning with the 2018 Spring Term, Washington and Lee will provide institutional grants to meet the full cost of Spring Term domestic and international travel programs for students with financial need.
Students practiced stage magic, sculpted severed fingers and whipped up batches of fake blood in a Spring Term course on special effects for the theater.
Professor Angie Smith's spring term class grapples with the question of just war theory in an age of terrorism.
Hit Show Inspires Spring Term Course on the Politics of Race and Gender.
A Spring Term course helps students grasp the separation of powers in the U.S. Constitution.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Spring Term archive.