The upcoming screening is the third installment in the DeLaney Center’s ongoing film series and will be shown at 5 p.m. on Tuesday, April 2 in Stackhouse Theater.
Dennie will present her research on “Southern Black Feminisms at the Turn of the Century” March 20 in the Watson Galleries. 
Dyson Foundation endows director position at the DeLaney Center.
Cleckley will present his research on _mpathic design in the Watson Galleries on Feb. 1 at 2 p.m.
The upcoming screening is the second installment in the DeLaney Center’s ongoing film series and will be shown on Thursday, Jan. 18 at 5 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater.
The Dec. 1 symposium will address issues of Southern race relations, culture and politics.
Bottoms, the former mayor of Atlanta, will headline the weeklong programming on campus.
An award of $9,500 will support the center’s Screen to Square film series.
This year’s first film, “Southern Hoops: A History of SEC Basketball,” will be shown Nov. 4 in Stackhouse Theater.
Professor Wendy Castenell kicks off the series on Sept. 19 at noon in Leyburn Library.
The May 16 screening is the latest installment in the DeLaney Center’s ongoing film series.
The DeLaney Center’s latest research project connects current students with a rich legacy.
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join conversations with W&L's expert faculty about their teaching, research and passion projects.
The new series, which launches Feb. 27, will focus on Southern race relations, culture and politics.
Terrence Johnson, professor of African American religious studies at Harvard University, will discuss his latest book on March 1.
Wingard Cunningham joins W&L from College of Wooster, where she is the Mildred Foss Thompson Professor of English and dean for faculty development.
Chantal Smith, assistant professor of economics, was selected for the one-year position to pursue research and course development.
The upcoming screening is the second installment in the DeLaney Center's ongoing film series.
Center announces new personnel, supports research opportunities and introduces programs for the campus community.
The first From Screen to Square event will take place on Monday, Nov. 7.
Michael Hill, professor and chair of the Africana Studies program at Washington and Lee University, has been named the inaugural director of the University’s new DeLaney Center, an interdisciplinary academic center for teaching and research on Southern race relations, culture, and politics.
Under the Ted DeLaney Postdoctoral Program, Washington and Lee University is welcoming new faculty each year from underrepresented groups. 
Washington and Lee University will name a new interdisciplinary academic center for teaching and research on Southern race relations, culture, and politics in honor of late professor of history emeritus Theodore “Ted” Carter DeLaney Jr. '85.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete DeLaney Center archive.