Grant funding through W&L's Johnson Program allows student recipients to pursue passion projects and career development around the world.
Sadie Charles Calame ’23 has built a well-rounded college experience through campus and community involvement.
Washington and Lee students blazed their own trails this summer to pursue their passions.
Bonner Kirkland '23 conducted biomedical research this summer in the Children’s National Hospital’s Department of Genetic Medicine.
Brendan Smith ’24 worked in the British House of Commons as a parliamentary research intern in London.
Lucy Worthy ’24 is conducting clinical research and shadowing a physician at the Mayo Clinic.
Diwesh Kumar ’24 is developing investment banking expertise at his summer internship at Boxwood Partners in Richmond, Virginia. 
Allie Stankewich '23 spent summer 2021 learning about public health in Uganda and green roofs in New York City.
Chris Tucker '23 spent the summer researching Western Bluebirds in Missoula with a biology professor from the University of Arizona.
Paige Anderson '22 is spending the summer recording an album of classical violin music in memory of her grandmother.
Virginia McGhee ’19 spent the summer at Stanford University building polymers in Bob Waymouth ’82’s chemistry lab.
Washington and Lee students utilize their summers through research, volunteer work and internship opportunities, both on campus and across the globe.
Monica Musgrave '18 is already double-majoring, but that didn't stop her from spending six-weeks in England studying two completely different subjects.
Skyler T. Zunk ’19 was an intern at the White House's Office of Political Affairs.
The best place to research your thesis? Some would say the library, but for Jacqueline Moruzzi '18 that place is the Cambridge University's Medieval Studies Summer Program.
As a research assistant at the Virginia Institute of Marine Science, Rachel Steffen ’18 gathered data on the environmental thresholds of juvenile sandbar sharks.
Shadowing surgeons in Thailand made neuroscience major Emily Ellis '18 even more excited about her chosen career path.
Marta Regn ’19 used her internship to throughly explore all aspects of a sustainable, ethical jewelry startup.
Laura Stagno '18 saw the faces of America's future leaders, including her own, through an internship on Capitol Hill.
Vicky Kazmierczak '18 spent the summer in Memphis, learning the ins and outs of non-profit work — and how to hope.
Alex Meilech '18 spent the summer in Santiago, Chile, learning the language, exploring the culture, and caring for the people of the country.
Julia Kaczmar '19 spent a summer in New York City, learning the logistics of the latest fashions.
Mandy Witherspoon ’18 combined her love of art with her expertise in business at the Baltimore Museum of Art.
Danielle Hughson's honors thesis will be focused on male editorial control and how it affects female writers, within a familial and patriarchal context.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Yoko Koyama '19 and Maren Lundgren '18 to open a store in Cameroon that will fund transportation for local children to go to middle school in a neighboring town.
Olivia Kubli '18's summer volunteer work included photographing lions, giraffes and elephants in Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe.
Anna Milewski '18 has spent time in fields, labs, carpenter shops and seminar rooms - and it was all part of one internship at the home of George Washington.
Hannah Palmatary '18 spent the summer discovering the ancient ruins of Greece, as well as her own talent and passion for creative writing.
Liz Todd '19 was able to extend her Spring Term Abroad and spend the summer in Brazil, where she worked for an environmental agency.
A summer at UC San Diego gave Katie Volk '18 experience working in a big research environment
Shadowing doctors in Peru allowed Bryan D'Ostroph '19 to practice his Spanish and firm up future career plans in health care.
Through the U.Va. Field School for Public Health Research, Julie Sklar '18 was able to work with a medical anthropologist and epidemiologist in South Africa this summer.
After spending Spring Term in Ethiopia, Jack Kaelin '19 is in Austin, Texas, helping refugees find a place to call home. 
Julia Poppenberg '19 spent the summer as a translator in Guatemala, helping doctors and patients alike and learning to "talk strong."
Jack Miller '19 has spent his summer in the bush of South Africa, learning about wildlife and conservation - and having a few close calls in the field.
Jason Renner ’19 interned this summer for two lobbying firms in Washington, D.C.
JASC is a student-exchange program, initiated in 1934 by university students concerned by the breakdown of bilateral relations prior to World War II.
Isabella Sparhawk used her Johnson Opportunity Grant to spend five weeks in India, studying vinyasa yoga and photojournalism.
For the 2017 competition, NSF received over 13,000 applications and made 2,000 award offers.
Finding answers in the space where science and art intersect.
Geology professor Lisa Greer, who has been taking students to Belize since 2011 to monitor the health of coral reefs, said their research indicates that the latest El Niño, on top of global climate change, may be harming the Belize Barrier Reef.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Cameron Lee interns at the Cluj School of Public Health in Romania.
Jamie Hayes ’17 spent two summer months in New Zealand, where he conducted research that could eventually help to improve the diagnosis of gastrointestinal ailments.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Bogdan Bors '17 interns with Community Empowerment Solutions, a social entrepreneurship company focusing on microconsignment opportunities in Ecuador.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Sonia Brozak '17 Travels to Florence to Study Art History.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Prakhar Naithani '17 conducts research at North Carolina State University's Forestry Biomaterials Department.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Franklin Wolfe '16 Travels to Europe to Gather Data for 3D Geologic Models.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Sara Jones '18 Travels to India to Study Maternal and Child Health.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Kayla Sylvester '17 Volunteers with a Local Literacy Council in South Dakota.
Johnson Opportunity Grant winner connects interests in economics and art history at famed auction house.
Johnson Opportunity Grant winner dives into local politics in Nashville.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Anna Paden Carson '16 Helps Detained Immigrants Navigate the Immigration System.
Johnson Opportunity Grant winner tries her hand at brand marketing in Charleston, S.C.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Stephen Himmelberg '17 Studies Sport-Related Traumatic Brain Injury.
Johnson Opportunity Grant winner gets a taste of state politics the Tennessee State Capitol.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Johnson Opportunity Grant archive.