The upcoming screening is the third installment in the DeLaney Center’s ongoing film series and will be shown at 5 p.m. on Tuesday, April 2 in Stackhouse Theater.
Laura Murambadoro ’26 brings varied interests, a collaborative leadership style and a passion for community engagement to W&L’s campus.
Washington and Lee’s Interfraternity Council, National Panhellenic Conference and National Pan-Hellenic Council focus on community-building, education and fundraising throughout the year.
Washington and Lee students are making a dynamic impact in the community through National Pan-Hellenic Council organizations.
Bottoms, the former mayor of Atlanta, will headline the weeklong programming on campus.
Washington and Lee’s Class of 2023 includes nine recipients of the Certificate of International Immersion awarded by W&L’s Center for International Education.
Heidi Bustos serves as the assistant director of inclusion and engagement.
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join conversations with W&L's expert faculty about their teaching, research and passion projects.
W&L’s most recent museum exhibition, “Mother Clay: The Pottery of Three Pueblo Women,” brought new artists into the university’s collection and connected the campus community in unexpected ways. 
This year's Black FLEX conference theme is a Legacy of Excellence.
A variety of events and lectures are planned for this year’s observance of MLK day.
Solomon will provide strategies for fostering generational diversity and inclusion during her session in Stackhouse Theater on Jan. 4.
Chantal Smith, assistant professor of economics, was selected for the one-year position to pursue research and course development.
English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) invites the community to a holiday gathering on Dec. 5. 
The Office of Inclusion and Engagement organized and hosted events to mark the occasion in collaboration with the Office of Alumni and Career Services and the Harte Center for Teaching and Learning.
The Nuestro Hogar Latino theme house's new location accommodates more students and offers expanded space for programming.
The first From Screen to Square event will take place on Monday, Nov. 7.
Dinner attendees are invited to sample an indigenous menu during a guided discussion on Nov. 14.
Robbins comes to Washington and Lee after serving as an academic advisor at the University of Michigan.
The recent renovation of the second and third floors of Elrod Commons has provided staff and students with new and improved workspaces.
Fio serves as the senior program coordinator for the Office of Inclusion and Engagement.
The university recently celebrated National First-Generation College Student Day to recognize student achievement and remind the community about support resources for first-generation and low-income students at W&L.
Under the Ted DeLaney Postdoctoral Program, Washington and Lee University is welcoming new faculty each year from underrepresented groups. 
Ten years after helping found the LGBTQ Resource Center at W&L, Chris Washnock ’12 has carried its community-building lessons into a career in faith-based advocacy.
The award covers full tuition and includes a $10,000 stipend toward living expenses.
Organizations across the Lexington and Rockbridge County areas have planned a Juneteenth event that will include an art show, live music, a free raffle and more. 
As part of a community-based learning course in collaboration with Rockbridge Regional Tourism and the Rockbridge Historical Society, Washington and Lee University students researched and mapped Black-owned businesses that thrived in Lexington during the Jim Crow era.
A special dinner series at The Marketplace this academic year has featured menus created by Dining Services employees to pay homage to places they’ve lived or studied in culinary school.
Washington and Lee University’s Office of Inclusion and Engagement recently released a video featuring members of W&L’s Asian and Pacific Islander community, calling on the world to notice, and end, incidents of hate.
On March 9, Heumann will share her experiences advocating for disability rights and discuss the movement's future.
The Feb. 24 online lecture, titled “Black Entrepreneurs: Where Does Money Fit into Protest?,” will examine capitalism as a part of the Black freedom-fighting arsenal.
Renovations to the John W. Elrod Commons will create spaces to expand collaborations and conversations.
W&L’s Office of Inclusion and Engagement is expanding, reaching an unprecedented number of people with its programming.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Diversity and Inclusion archive.