W&L will celebrate the global event on April 13 in the McCarthy Gallery.
The art specialist’s talk will be held on March 25 at 5:30 p.m.
The Museums at W&L invite the public to explore its exhibitions and collections with select programming through May.
“Mohammad Omer Khalil: Musings,” co-curated by four Washington and Lee students as part of a seminar course in museum studies, will be on display in the Watson Galleries Sept. 28, 2023 through June 1, 2024.
The Museums at W&L invite the public to their opening reception for “Musings” on Sept. 28 at 6:30 p.m.
Washington and Lee’s Museum Artist-in-Residence Program welcomed photographer Stephanie Shih to campus in May to create new work based on the Museums’ art collection.
“OPEN FLOWERS BEAR FRUIT” opens May 1 in the McCarthy Gallery in Holekamp Hall.
W&L will celebrate the global event on April 15 from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the Reeves Museum of Ceramics.
“We Love Life Whenever We Can” will be on display at W&L’s Leyburn Library April 1 through Dec. 8, 2023.
The Museums at W&L invites visitors to reflect on “Born of Fire: Contemporary Japanese Women Ceramic Artists,” on display through April 29.
W&L’s most recent museum exhibition, “Mother Clay: The Pottery of Three Pueblo Women,” brought new artists into the university’s collection and connected the campus community in unexpected ways. 
The campus community will recognize women’s achievements with various events throughout the month of March.
This exhibit is free and open to the public, with a scheduled reception and lecture by curator and scholar Jacqueline Chao on March 8 at 5 p.m.
Ferguson’s sessions on March 10 and 11 are part of Winter Term programming at the Museums at W&L.
CAP helps museums improve the care of their collections by providing support for a general conservation assessment of the museum’s objects and buildings.
Terrence Johnson, professor of African American religious studies at Harvard University, will discuss his latest book on March 1.
Two new ceramics exhibits, which spotlight women artists, open to the public Feb. 1.
Mueller will give a public lecture in Northen Auditorium on Nov. 9 at 5 p.m.
Four Washington and Lee alumni were honored on Friday, Oct. 21, during a ceremony dedicating the installation of three plaques on the university’s Memorial Gateway.
The Museums at W&L invite the public to their opening reception for "Museum Menageries" on Sept. 15 at 6 p.m.
The two recent acquisitions, a large dish and a small jar, allow the museum to better represent the global reach of Chinese ceramics. 
The public lecture, titled "Portrait of a Village, Ukraine," will be delivered by Lida and Mišo Suchý on April 28 at 5 p.m.
W&L will celebrate the international movement on April 2 from noon to 2 p.m. in Watson Gallery on the W&L campus. 
Lynn Rainville discusses her research and field work with Black cemeteries.
The public event will feature hot chocolate tasting of historic recipes and feature a display of historic ceramics made for chocolate (beverages?) with Ron Fuchs, W&L's senior curator of ceramics.
Amelia Lancaster '22 has used her W&L experience to explore a number of interests, ultimately finding a passion in museum studies and Chinese that has allowed her to co-curate a museum exhibition on campus.
The University Chapel and Galleries recently opened an exhibition titled "Setting the Stage: A Glimpse Inside 150 Years of the University Chapel Auditorium."
The discussion on Oct. 20, "A Wilde Teapot: Exploring Race, Gender and Sexuality,” is free and open to the public.
Lynn Rainville discusses Black cemetery preservation in a recent NBC News article.  
A deer figure on display in a new Watson Galleries exhibit, "Auspicious Animals," is an example of the Chinese practice of blending European tastes with encoded symbolic meaning.
The Museums at W&L invite the public to their grand reopening reception on Sept. 24 at 4:30 p.m.
The exhibition is the first comprehensive study of the artist's watercolors.
W&L's students and visitors will find lots to explore in and around Lexington this year.
Lynn Rainville was recently featured in the Burlington County Times.
The May 17 event will highlight the exhibit, which is curated by sevens students at W&L as part of a Spring Term course, Seminar in Museum Studies.
Isra El-Beshir, associate director of museums, is helping develop, coordinate and execute the strategic plan for the Museums of W&L. 
The exhibit of paintings by Evelyn Dawson, which includes student reflections and a student-curated playlist, is part of Museums at W&L's new Mindfulness Initiative and the 20th anniversary of the Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Program. 
The community is invited to a virtual talk on April 7 titled "Women in the Arts: Out of the Margins, Into the Light."
The public discussion, which explored female abolitionists’ roles in history, featured Lena Hill, dean of the college; Ron Fuchs, senior curator of ceramics; and Nneka Dennie, assistant professor of history.
This porcelain bowl manufactured in Saint-Cloud, France, is an excellent example of work done under the supervision of a woman named Barbe Coudray, who successfully and profitably ran a factory that remained in production until 1766.
On Feb. 26, W&L’s museums and art galleries reopened to current W&L students, faculty and staff for in-person visitation.
Debris from the aftermath of the Hiroshima bombing found its way to W&L’s Special Collections, where it heightened one class’s understanding of a powerful Japanese novel.  
This 1820s plate in the Reeves Museum collection depicts the landing at Plymouth Rock, a likely myth that became a central story in the history of America.
COVID-19 may have forced events to go virtual this Fall Term, but that means some guest speaker talks and art exhibits can still be enjoyed online.
Theater students at W&L were challenged to select a piece from the university's art collection and give it voice. 
Lynn Rainville will participate in the virtual symposium "Revealing Fayetteville – A New Landscape" on Nov. 2 from noon to 3:30 p.m. 
Dr. Guelzo will deliver this year’s lecture, “The Mystery of Robert E. Lee,” virtually.
A plan of the slave ship Brookes that was used to advance the cause of abolitionists has been acquired by the Reeves Museum at Washington and Lee University, where it will complement a collection of abolitionist ceramics.
A pair of Bijin, or beautiful women, made in Arita, Japan, between 1690 and 1720 are the first of their kind in the Reeves Museum of Ceramics at W&L.
A generous donation of art last year from Rick Kramer '69 includes three works by Sam Gilliam, one of the most significant living artists of our time.
A plate decorated with a widely distributed political cartoon of the American Revolution was used as commentary on the political, social and economic issues of the time.
A new gift to the Reeves Museum of Ceramics documents how one artist is responding to the COVID-19 pandemic.
“To See Color First,” the first comprehensive study of Louise Herreshoff Eaton’s bold and expressive watercolors, opens April 27 as a virtual exhibition.
In the “Unmarked” episode of the “Reel South” series, Rainville highlights her research into historic African American cemeteries.
This plate, a recent gift to W&L's Reeves Museum of Ceramics from local collectors Joan and Jay Crawford, provides a window into Chinese culture and the material lives of one of Virginia’s most prestigious families.  
For anyone participating in online learning during this time, there are several resources available through the museums that can help enrich the virtual classroom experience.
W&L's studio art majors present their senior projects in an online exhibition.
A jar on display in the Reeves Center is an example of talavera poblana, which is tin-glazed earthenware made in Puebla, Mexico.
The title of Lynn Rainville’s talk is “Untold Stories of Founders, Leaders and Other Visionaries at W&L.”
After conservation next year, the 154-year-old Stieff piano inside Lee House will be playable once more.
As Native American Heritage Month kicks off, University Collections of Art and History invites you to see artwork by Native American artists and featuring Native American people and cultures.
A jar in the Reeves Collection tells the story of an African-American craftsman in Antebellum America.
Lynn Rainville, community initiatives fellow at the University of Virginia’s Institute for Advanced Technology in the Humanities and former dean of Sweet Briar College, will be the inaugural Director of Institutional History at Washington and Lee University.
On March 1, W&L’s University Collections of Art and History will open its newest exhibit, "Breaking the Chains: Ceramics and the Abolition Movement."
University Collections of Art and History recently purchased prints by iconic American artists Thomas Hart Benton and James Abbott McNeill Whistler, and they are already being incorporated into courses in art and art history. 
This porcelain dish, which tells a story about the Dutch East India Company and the Dutch Golden Age of the 17th century, will be used in classes ranging from art history to economics. 
“An Embassy from the East-India Company of the United Provinces to the Grand Tartar Cham Emperor of China" tells the story of a trade delegation sent from the Dutch East India Company to China in 1655-57.
The historic institutions will temporarily exchange iconic portraits of George Washington, which will go on public view in mid-December.
Friends and classmates of Jeanne de Saussure Smith ’08 have dedicated an E. E. Cummings painting to W&L in her memory.
This elegant bowl, which is part of W&L's Reeves Collection, can be traced back to the Opium War of 1839-1842.
After Tucker Hall was restored, University Collections of Art & History worked to find the perfect art to adorn its walls — including four bas-relief sculptures that hung on campus more than 100 years ago.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Museums at W&L archive.