A student-run academic exercise, Mock Con remains the most accurate political mock convention in the country
The student-led convention, held every four years, will bring several notable speakers to W&L on Feb. 9-10.
Washington and Lee University’s Special Collections and Archives has been working with the 2024 Mock Convention to debut an exhibit showcasing extraordinary items from past conventions.
The 28th Mock Convention’s Presidential Gala on Nov. 12 offered the campus a glimpse of the upcoming excitement for the 2024 mock presidential convention.
Rove, former Senior Advisor and Deputy Chief of Staff to President George W. Bush, will deliver remarks at the Oct. 5 event. Tickets to the auction in Evans Hall remain available.
Mock Convention made its Spring Kickoff event an informative preview of upcoming convention conversations.
The W&L community event will be held on Tuesday, March 21, at 6 p.m. in W&L’s University Chapel.
Mock Convention is gathering steam as the organization prepares for its Spring Kickoff event on March 21.
The annual event brought 1,800 people to campus.
Hosted during Parents and Family Weekend, the Sept. 30 event will kick off the 28th Mock Convention.
Two W&L students dramatically upgraded security preparations for the biggest Mock Con yet.
W&L’s Mock Con, one of the most ambitious student political research projects in the country, this year aims to predict the Democratic Party’s presidential nominee.
As director of communications for Mock Con 2020, Annie Lentz '20 applies her love of mass communications and politics to promote and protect a 112-year-old legacy.
Mock Con Political Chair John Harashinski '20 hopes to carry on the event's legacy of accurate predictions using lessons from courses in political analysis and leadership.
An all-student team has created a versatile app for Mock Con 2020, bringing ticketing, program information and image sharing onto attendees’ phones and eliminating thousands of pages of printed material.
As director of operations for Mock Con 2020, Kylie Piotte '21 puts her event-planning skills to the test and finds her fit at W&L.
Whether he's on the football field or in the Mock Con war room, Kyle Perel '20 never forgets about the importance of teamwork and adaptable leadership.
As Mock Con 2020 approaches, take a look back at the 112-year history of this unparalleled event.
Want to work for the U.S. Congress? Judging by past successes, earning a degree from Washington and Lee University is a pretty good start.
Mock Con 2020 Financial Chair Elizabeth Thompson '20 works with the rest of the Financial Team to raise and manage significant sums for a successful event.
We invite you to peek behind the scenes with the hard-working student leaders of the W&L Mock Convention and enjoy a brief video reminder of what makes this community such a special place.
Luke Basham '20 parlays a passion for politics into the challenging role of Democratic Party analyst for Mock Con 2020.
How Mock Con General Secretary Layne Smith '20 stays sane under the pressure of academics, Mock Con 2020 and acting as head hearing advisor for the W&L Honor System.
As general chair for Mock Con 2020, Jimmy Fleck '20 uses his political knowledge and business skills to lead a team of stand-out students toward a historic moment.
With the home stretch to Mock Con 2020 just around the corner, the political team watches an increasingly contentious primary race.
The Presidential Gala Dress Exchange allowed students to buy and sell formal dresses to wear to the event.
For the first time in W&L Mock Convention's 111-year history, sustainability is a key part of the plan.
The keynote speaker for kickoff weekend will be John Heilemann, a political journalist who hosts Showtime’s “The Circus” and serves as a political analyst for MSNBC and NBC News. 
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Mock Con archive.