Starting in July, Bishop will participate in a year-long cultural immersion program in Germany.
The Critical Language Scholarship Program funds a summer of overseas language and cultural immersion.
Jessica Pachuca ’25 and Gabe Miller ’25 will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Carnegie Mellon University this summer.
Washington and Lee was ranked third among the baccalaureate institutions recognized by the Fulbright Program.
W&L alumni’s Fulbright experiences expand their worldviews and shape their post-graduate careers.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Yurechko ’24 is the university’s first Marshall Scholar.
Three Washington and Lee University graduates received scholarships from the National Leadership Honor Society to support graduate and professional study.
De Zoysa is the university’s first recipient of the two-year scholarship for juniors interested in a public service career.
Tahri Phillips ’23 will be pursuing a master’s degree at the University of Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar.
Matthew Loar serves as director of fellowships and student research.
Washington and Lee is the only liberal arts college to be named among the top five institutions for producing Boren Scholarship recipients.
Ellie Penner ’23 received a Boren Scholarship to study Hindi in India.
Classics professor will use the fellowship to research his project “Annotated Amores” at the University of Cincinnati this spring.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Stankewich has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Uganda.
Markley will start their role in the Japanese Exchange and Teaching (JET) Program by early August 2023.
Christy Childs ’26 and Griffin Conti ’26 will receive funding to study foreign languages this summer.
The David L. Boren Scholarship supports the intensive study of languages deemed important to U.S. interests.
Seay has been selected for the Goldwater Scholarship to support a research career in science, mathematics and engineering, and also earned the Udall Scholarship in the environmental category.
Talton has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English to the Roma student population in Hungary.
Boussy has been awarded a Fulbright-Nehru research grant to study Buddhist shrines and temples in India.
Rojas has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Mexico.
Connor has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Germany.
Hawley has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Spain.
Godsey has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Taiwan.
Tartakovsky has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Azerbaijan, his parents’ homeland.
Pernell has been awarded a Young Professional Journalist Program Award to conduct research and gain career experience in Germany.
Dixon has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Taiwan.
Moye-Green will pursue a master’s degree in criminal justice and penal change at the University of Strathclyde.
Mott will pursue a master’s degree in digital media and society at Cardiff University.
The Beinecke Scholarship Program provides funds for post-graduate study to students of unusual promise.
Ellie Penner ’23, a Washington and Lee University senior, has received a Critical Language Scholarship (CLS) to study Bangla this summer in Kolkata, West Bengal, India.
Oluwakuyide will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at the University of Washington this summer.
The scholarship provides young scholars with an immersive experience in Asia through which they can learn to "be comfortable being uncomfortable." 
Washington and Lee was ranked second among the baccalaureate institutions recognized by the Fulbright Program.
Professor Adedayo Abah will travel to Tanzania to help build a master’s degree program in communications at the University of Dar es Salaam.
Chantal Smith, assistant professor of economics, was selected for the one-year position to pursue research and course development.
Lozinskaya, a 2022 graduate, will receive a master’s degree in global affairs from Tsinghua University in China.
Phillips '23 is the university’s 18th Rhodes Scholar.
Alice Tianbo Zhang’s research is being used to shed light on the impact of the pandemic on business activities in Indian Country.
Seven students from W&L received Gilman scholarships for academic year 2020-2021.
Sandy de Lissovoy is one of 22 fellows to participate in the prestigious residency program from Virginia Center for the Creative Arts.
Another record-setting year for nationally competitive fellowships at W&L can be attributed to forward-thinking educators, hard-working students and an encouraging fellowships director.
After his USTA program orientation in September, Tinsley will teach in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
Kingwill has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Uzbekistan. He will depart in September 2022 for his 10-month program. 
After her USTA program orientation in September, Joey Dickinson will be teaching in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
Mosher has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Kazakhstan. He will also spend this summer receiving intensive Russian language training in Tbilisi, Georgia.
Bernard has been selected as a 2022 Udall Scholar in the environmental category.
Elizabeth Grist has been awarded a Fulbright research grant to Melbourne, Australia, to study the stigma and barriers associated with receiving medication for opioid use disorder.
Three members of the Class of 2022 will spend seven months in the Teaching Assistant Program in France (TAPIF) teaching English to public school.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Johnston was recently awarded a fellowship to the Center for Arabic Study Abroad at the American University in Cairo.
Carley will serve as an English language teaching assistant in a school in the former Soviet republic.
Stankewich received a David L. Boren Scholarship from the National Security Education Program to study abroad in Tanzania in fall 2022.
Galvez has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to France, where he will teach English to secondary school students and serve as a cultural ambassador for the United States.
Fugate will use her graduate research fellowship from the National Science Foundation to study the migration patterns of bison in Yellowstone National Park. 
After her USTA program orientation in September, Shugart will team teach in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
Addison has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Uruguay, where she will teach English to primary or secondary school students and serve as a cultural ambassador for the United States.
The English Teaching Assistantship provides Cones a stipend to teach English to students in Bulgaria and lead cultural exchange activities.
Tripathi will teach English to students in Colombia for 10 months.
Lee has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Costa Rica starting in early 2023.
Maggie Hardin '22 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany.
Keeley will live in a German community for one academic year to teach English to students in a local school.
The Beinecke Scholarship Program provides funds for post-graduate study to students of unusual promise.
Each scholar is awarded $7,500 to support undergraduate research in their junior or senior year.
Riter will spend the next academic year volunteering with a community organization, working as an English teaching assistant and taking courses at the University of Graz.
McMaster has been awarded a Fulbright research grant to Italy to complete a hybrid art history and computer science project.
Six undergraduate students received Critical Language Scholarships, which will provide them the opportunity to study language intensively during summer 2022.
Larsen will spend the next academic year studying at the Budapest Semesters in Mathematics and participating in a research group at the Alfréd Rényi Institute of Mathematics.
Moye-Green will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton.
Six students and three alumni from W&L received Fulbright awards for academic year 2021-2022
A record-setting year for nationally competitive fellowship awards at Washington and Lee University can be attributed to forward-thinking educators, hard-working students and a persistent, encouraging fellowships director. 
Watt has received a Fulbright grant to support his research on the importance of small-scale fishing for livelihoods, culture and well-being in Vanuatu, an island nation in the South Pacific. 
James Ricks ’21 has received a Fulbright creative grant to Nepal to photograph patients and healthcare providers at a one-of-a-kind health clinic.
Tanner Hall ‘21 was recently awarded a fellowship to the Center for Arabic Study Abroad program at the American University in Cairo.
The award will support a nine-month research project in India investigating intervention service access for individuals with disabilities.
Lorena Terroba Urruchua '21 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship (ETA) to Spain.
In September 2021, Bull will leave for a 10-month stay in Ecuador to develop a co-creative anthology of stories covering resistance and resilience networks in the Ecuadorian Amazon.
Ramonah Gibson '20 has received a Fulbright United Kingdom (U.K.) Partnership Award to complete her master's degree in creative writing scriptwriting at the University of East Anglia.
Her project, “Age and Growth of Fan Mussel (Pinna nobilis) in Mar Menor,” will take her to Calpe, in Spain this fall.
Poppenberg has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Argentina starting in March 2022.
   Five students from W&L received Fulbright awards for academic year 2020-2021.
Sadlowski has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany starting January 2021.
Rivers has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Mexico starting January 2021.
Berger has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain starting January 2021.
Garfinkel will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton
Eight students and three faculty received Fulbright awards for 2019-2020.
Jill Fraley, associate professor of law at Washington and Lee University, has received a Fulbright U.S. Scholar Grant to conduct research at Bilkent University in Ankara, Turkey during the 2019–20 academic year.
The fellowship lasts a full academic year and allows students to conduct formal research and pursue advocacy efforts on a specific topic.
Syed is a biology major and a Middle East and South Asia studies minor.
Reid Gaede ’19 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany. 
Washington and Lee University senior Kathryn McEvoy ’19 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain for summer 2019. 
Washington and Lee University senior Jackson Ellis ’19 has won a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany for summer 2019.
Agrippina has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain.
 In Tanzania, Mugo will study the perception of the life of refugees after resettlement.
Dau will live and work in Vienna for nine months.
Her scholarship will fund a nine- to 12-month study of small-scale cultural heritage looting operations in the Golden Triangle of India.
W&L is included on the list of U.S. colleges and universities that produced the most 2018-2019 Fulbright U.S. Students.
Carson Bryant '18 has been awarded a Fulbright grant for an English Teaching Assistantship in Germany.
 Jared Shely '18 will use the grant to continue his work teaching English to students in Latin America.
Hannah Falchuk '18 hopes to improve her cultural understanding and language proficiency in the country.
W&L senior Harrison Westgarth has been awarded a Fulbright grant to Brazil, where he will study the “Development of an Animal Model of Direct and Congenital Zika Virus Transmission.”
W&L senior John Dannehl has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Fellowships archive.