W&L's Office of Career and Professional Development gave students the opportunity to network and explore potential career paths over Washington Break.
Smith’s W&L experience includes finding a family in his lacrosse teammates and helping other students discover their career paths as a career fellow. 
A global politics and economics double major, Dantini found his ‘home’ on campus with the University Singers.
Following his service in the JAG Corps, Christian Addison opened ASE Representation, a full-service sports and entertainment agency.
Students in the Williams School consulted on a number of projects including marketing, research and social media strategy for businesses and organizations.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Yurechko ’24 is the university’s first Marshall Scholar.
The event will be held in Washington, D.C., on Oct. 12-13.
Lauren Shelby ’23 will be pursuing her master’s degree at New York University.
Andrew Tartakovsky ’23 received a Fulbright grant to teach English in Azerbaijan.
The two-day event will be held on campus Sept. 29-30.
Charlotte Dross ’23 is working in public relations as a postgraduate intern at Jackson Spalding.
Tom Boss worked as a summer associate with Williams & Connolly in Washington, D.C.
Sadie Charles Calame ’23 is working as a construction lead for Teton Habitat for Humanity.
Harris Hubbard ’23 will attend graduate school at Rutgers University Business School before joining Wells Fargo as an investment banking analyst.
Tahri Phillips ’23 will be pursuing a master’s degree at the University of Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar.
Caroline Wise ’23 is working as a backcountry guide for St. Elias Alpine Guides in Alaska.
Allie Stankewich ’23 will spend the summer in Tanzania before pursuing a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship in Uganda.
Ryan Redd is an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Lubbock Division of the Northern District of Texas.
Blake Sanchez ’23 is working as a management consultant in the Public Health Segment at Guidehouse in Washington, D.C.
Ellie Penner ’23 received a Boren Scholarship to study Hindi in India.
Gabby Emge ’23 will be pursuing her J.D. at Harvard Law School.
For Tilbor, W&L instilled a healthy curiosity and a lifelong love of learning.
Young learned the critical skills to excel at her job from the veteran journalists in Reid Hall.
Seay has been selected for the Goldwater Scholarship to support a research career in science, mathematics and engineering, and also earned the Udall Scholarship in the environmental category.
Talton has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English to the Roma student population in Hungary.
Boussy has been awarded a Fulbright-Nehru research grant to study Buddhist shrines and temples in India.
Rojas has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Mexico.
Connor has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Germany.
Godsey has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Taiwan.
Tartakovsky has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Azerbaijan, his parents’ homeland.
Pernell has been awarded a Young Professional Journalist Program Award to conduct research and gain career experience in Germany.
Dixon has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Taiwan.
Moye-Green will pursue a master’s degree in criminal justice and penal change at the University of Strathclyde.
Mott will pursue a master’s degree in digital media and society at Cardiff University.
The Office of Inclusion and Engagement organized and hosted events to mark the occasion in collaboration with the Office of Alumni and Career Services and the Harte Center for Teaching and Learning.
Allen will give a public talk on the W&L campus on Oct. 31 at 4 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater.
Since graduation, Schiffman has worked as an account executive at Anomaly on the Crown Royal team in SoHo, New York City.  
Andrea Levan '22 is a paralegal specialist in the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice in Washington, D.C. 
Elizabeth Grist '22 will spend next year conducting research in Melbourne, Australia as a Fulbright Scholar. Her project assesses the barriers and stigma associated with receiving medication for opioid use disorder. 
This fall, Jin Ni ’22 will pursue her master’s degree in human rights at University College London in the United Kingdom.  
Leah Jackson ’22 always knew she wanted to pursue the health field. Thanks to summer internships and dedication, she heads off to Harvard this fall to follow her passion.  
After a successful summer internship in 2021, W&L's Rett Daugbjerg '22 is now working for JLL's Capital Markets group in Atlanta, Georgia. 
Kristen Xu ’22 worked diligently during her time at W&L to accomplish her dream of working with a beauty company after graduation. Currently, she is a global marketing coordinator at NARS Cosmetics in New York.
Shrestha worked with the Office of Career and Professional Development at W&L to "engineer" the perfect career after graduation. 
Burden is taking her talents to New York City to work in strategic planning at advertising agency BBDO.
Spanfeller will be applying her studies in sociology and strategic communication to her new role as an editorial assistant for Women's Health magazine.
Sharman will put his degrees to use in a position on Capitol Hill.
Sheridan, a business administration and studio art major, will be joining the wealth management team at UBS in New York City.
At W&L, Kirkland discovered that his two passions, sports and engineering, could be combined into one fulfilling pursuit. He's going to intern at a sports equipment company before heading to grad school at Purdue.
Assenso, a neuroscience major, is heading to the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York, where she will be a clinical research coordinator.
Between the classroom and her community volunteer work, Katherine Ho '23 has built a W&L experience that is already paying off in the career world.
The professor of English and associate dean of strategic initiatives champions the liberal arts as the best preparation for postgraduate success.
As the academic year began, the Class of 2024 participated in multiple in-person events that allowed them to network and learn more about the many resources available to them at W&L.
Katana Evans '22 used summer enhancement funds to intern with Rep. Julia Brownley's office and Recovery Organization Resources.
Chris Tucker '23 spent the summer researching Western Bluebirds in Missoula with a biology professor from the University of Arizona.
The Office of Career and Professional Development (CPD) supports and empowers W&L students and alumni to discover, navigate and achieve their career and professional goals.
The March 22 conversation with Rowe, host of the hit television series “Dirty Jobs,” is open to the W&L community.
The Feb. 23 event is part of a series covering key career development topics such as professional documents, developing your story, networking, interviewing and succeeding on the job.
Washington and Lee University’s Student Affairs staff worked tirelessly to support students through the COVID-19 pandemic and the move to virtual instruction.
Career and Professional Development Dean John Jensen '01 and his staff are busy providing career advice for Generals navigating a tricky economic landscape. 
A class in Denmark, an internship in India and lots of eye-opening experiences in the Lexington community have encouraged Amanda Dorsey '21 to advocate for inclusion in the public health field.
Want to work for the U.S. Congress? Judging by past successes, earning a degree from Washington and Lee University is a pretty good start.
Attendees will discover the technology, insights and trends shaping the future of data and analytics.
When he isn't connecting employers with W&L students, Gabe Pickett is often working out—probably to burn off all those hot dogs.
The Law, Justice, and Society Program offers an interdisciplinary approach to legal studies that draws from faculty and resources in all three schools at Washington and Lee University.
The Cape Town Program, a partnership between the Williams School and the Shepherd Program, provides students with an interdisciplinary experience they'll never forget.
For students like Lourdes Arana '21, the London Internship Program combines course work, internships and alumni support to create an unforgettable educational experience.
Layne Setash '19 recently earned a Distinguished Teacher Award from the Virginia Association of Colleges of Teacher Education.
Garrett Clinton '20 says attending W&L is "like being dropped into a pool of opportunities.'' 
Sykes will be working this summer with Ernst & Young in Frankfurt.
Washington Break at W&L is about exploration, whether that discovery involves Texas mountaintops, Japanese culture or career opportunities in New York.
What’s for dinner? Entrepreneurs Emily Golub ’06 and Mary Drennen ’02 have the answer: online food kits.
Deepthi Thumuluri '20 won a Virginia Academy of Sciences grant to continue her research into the relationship between diet-induced obesity, exercise and the gut microbiome.
Alumnae business reporters recently visited W&L to offer advice and invite students to lean in and learn.
Whether he's working with the Williams Investment Society or playing jazz guitar, Joe Wen '19 makes the most of his W&L experience.
Washington Term, study abroad opportunities and internships—including one with the Philadelphia Eagles—have helped to shape Jason Renner's plans for the future.
This year’s event focuses on Exploring Careers and Issues in Social Innovation and Responsible Leadership.
Megan Engeland '19 spent her summer in a research laboratory in the psychology department at the University of Sydney in Australia.
Of the W&L graduates who took the exam, 89.5% passed one or more sections on their very first attempt.
Erin An '19 has spent time this summer researching immunotherapy treatments for pediatric cancer at the University of Virginia.
Catherine Savoca ’19 explored the real estate development industry this summer as a sales and marketing intern in Lisbon, Portugal.
The Critical Language Scholarship Program has allowed Riley Ries '19 to strengthen his Russian and learn more about politics and culture in Kyrgyzstan.
While digging at the Athenian Agora Excavation in Greece this summer, Allison Schuster '19 indulged her passion for archaeology and classics.
Yoko Koyama '19 put her W&L learning to work this summer at National Instruments Japan.
Jackson Ellis '19 is working with a German consulting agency to help international student-athletes navigate the college application process.
Xinxian Wang '21 was able to marry two interests in an internship with The Visual Arts Center in Richmond.
During a four-week internship with Enact Sustainable Strategies in Stockholm, Julia Carullo '20 has been inspired by Sweden's dedication to sustainability in business practices.
Washington and Lee students utilize their summers through research, volunteer work and internship opportunities, both on campus and across the globe.
The VP of global brand communications for adidas delivered the keynote address at a daylong advertising and marketing conference full of networking opportunities for students.
The program helps American students secure three-month long business internships in Germany.
A three-month internship with New York-based artist Taryn Simon presented Sara Dotterer '18 with myriad possibilities for her future career.
Laura Stagno '18 saw the faces of America's future leaders, including her own, through an internship on Capitol Hill.
Ethiopia Getachew '19 always had an interest in science, but working in the biochemistry lab and volunteering with local EMTs helped her future plans take shape.
Vicky Kazmierczak '18 spent the summer in Memphis, learning the ins and outs of non-profit work — and how to hope.
Working for the documentary filmmaking company Ark Media allowed Claire Hoffert '18 to exercise her research muscles and learn new skills.
During Reading Days, some students went on short trips that complemented the service and learning they experience on campus.
This year’s event focuses on “Exploring Careers and Issues in Social Innovation and Responsible Leadership.”
DataCon, a new event for students, will highlight the impacts of data analytics, big data and statistical computing.
Soon Ho Kwon '17 and Claire Meyers '18 spent the summer looking at how Corporate Social Responsibility plays a role in the bottom line.
Daniele San Roman '19L work on corporate and criminal law as a summer clerk for the Hon. Vice Chancellor Slights at the Delaware Court of Chancery and for the Hon. Judge Parkins at Delaware Superior Court.
Washington and Lee University’s Williams School will hold its sixth annual Entrepreneurship Summit Sept. 29-30.
Elly Cosgrove '19 stayed busy this summer with internships at the Greater Wilmington Business Journal and WECT (Channel 6).
Stephen Mitchell '17 credits students, alumni, and W&L academics for helping him to find the right career path.
Steven Yeung '17 has been in classrooms from Lexington to Ghana to Shanghai and back — and now plans to run a classroom in Japan.
Matthew Rickert ‘18: avid outdoorsman by day, corporate fraud analyst by night
Sisters Chloe Burch '14 and Neely Burch '13, who have been named to the Forbes' 30 Under 30 list, raised $1.25 million in seed funding to build their collection of leather handbags and shoes.
Byron Seward '70 won the 2017 Delta High Cotton Award for his efforts in producing a quality fiber economically and in an environmentally responsible manner.
Meet Tara Loughery, a junior who was considering going pre-med, but decided to pursue a different path after the STEM Career Trip to Richmond.
Meet Olivia Sisson, a senior who has wanted to be an artist since she was little - but didn’t know how - about her experience on the Humanities Career Trip to New York.
Meet Carley Sambrook, a senior who has the know-how to explore her dream thanks to the Fashion Career Trip to New York.
Over Reading Days, three groups of students traveled out of Lexington - and into the “real world.” Their goal was to find alumni and recent graduates who had found success in their fields of interest - and learn from them.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Career and Professional Development archive.