Yurechko ’24 is the university’s first Marshall Scholar.
Phillips '23 is the university’s 18th Rhodes Scholar.
Another record-setting year for nationally competitive fellowships at W&L can be attributed to forward-thinking educators, hard-working students and an encouraging fellowships director.
A record-setting year for nationally competitive fellowship awards at Washington and Lee University can be attributed to forward-thinking educators, hard-working students and a persistent, encouraging fellowships director. 
She will earn her master’s in digital health before attending medical school.
The award covers full tuition and includes a $10,000 stipend toward living expenses.
Despite COVID-19, Jared Nickodem '20 was able to make it to Austria, where he is teaching English to students as part of the U.S. Teaching Assistant Program.
Sadlowski has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany starting January 2021.
Nickodem’s USTA position with Fulbright Austria starts in September 2020.
Keller has received a USTA position with Fulbright Austria starting in October 2020.
Rivers has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Mexico starting January 2021.
Peccie’s award is part of ODK’s 2020 General Russell E. Dougherty National Leader of the Year Competition.
Berger has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain starting January 2021.
The Rhodes Scholarship, which averages $70,000 per year and up to as much as $250,000, fully funds two to four years of study at the University of Oxford in England.
Gabriele, a 2019 graduate, is the university’s 17th Rhodes Scholar.
Beck is the 22nd General to receive the distinction over the last 15 years.
Intern at Grow Marketing in San Francisco.
Juniors Lizzy Stanton and Lenny Enkhbold use geo-spatial visualizations to explore new interpretations of 19th-century German literature.
"College is a place where you will grow no matter how you go through it. The only thing you control is who you grow to be."
"W&L professors have a knack for making their students realize their true potential."
Azmain Amin '17 and Mina Shnoudah '17 look to automate testing of web services.
Kendrick Award winner Linda Gaida '16 reflects on her experience in the Gila Wilderness of New Mexico.
Johnson Opportunity Grant winner gets a taste of state politics the Tennessee State Capitol.
"W&L manages to be a catalyst for adventure while still offering that 'welcome home' feeling."
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Post-Graduate Scholarships archive.