Washington and Lee students are applying their accounting skills in the community as part of the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance program. 
W&L is one of 15 private colleges and universities to receive the 2024 Carnegie Community Engagement Classification.
The professor of cultural anthropology will serve a dual role leading Community-Based Learning and the SHECP Consortium.
Students in the Williams School consulted on a number of projects including marketing, research and social media strategy for businesses and organizations.
Elrod serves as the university advisor to the program that supports clients in navigating the required steps toward obtaining or reinstating a driver’s license.
Washington and Lee students gain new perspectives after internships through the Shepherd Program.
W&L neuroscience students recently partnered with an innovative art-making program offered at Kendal at Lexington.
CBL’s new initiative is an opportunity for faculty development, student collaboration and deepening partnerships with the surrounding community.
Terrence Johnson, professor of African American religious studies at Harvard University, will discuss his latest book on March 1.
Wingard Cunningham joins W&L from College of Wooster, where she is the Mildred Foss Thompson Professor of English and dean for faculty development.
Community-Based Learning’s collaborations this fall offered students an opportunity to deepen community connections.
This fall, Washington and Lee Student Consulting tackled a new project for a local business with a sustainability focus.
Students in Jon Erickson's Electrical Circuits course are learning through teaching local elementary school students.
Alumni and friends of the Bonner Program are invited to a reception in Mattingly House during Young Alumni Weekend.
Margaret Witkofsky '24 is researching grants for the city of Lexington, Virginia through her internship with the Office of Community-Based Learning.
The recent Community Cupboards collaboration with the Virginia Cooperative Extension offered students the opportunity to tackle food insecurity from a cross-disciplinary perspective.
As  part of a community-based learning class in the Sociology and Anthropology Department, students worked with community partners to create a workshop about positive sexual culture for first-year students.
Jayne Reino is a visiting assistant professor of Spanish at Washington and Lee University.
The Community-Based Learning Fellows Program intends to deepen the high-impact practice and pedagogy of community-based learning at W&L.
Community-based learning is an educational approach that integrates learning and mentorship with community engagement.
As part of a community-based learning course in collaboration with Rockbridge Regional Tourism and the Rockbridge Historical Society, Washington and Lee University students researched and mapped Black-owned businesses that thrived in Lexington during the Jim Crow era.
The pandemic has presented challenges to working and learning within the community, but virtual and distanced projects have allowed those partnerships to continue to bear fruit this year. 
At W&L, Lorena Terroba Urruchua ’21 found her purpose — helping people with disabilities — at the intersection of psychology, Romance languages and poverty studies. 
Students in Professor Dayo Abah’s Principles of Public Relations class worked with a Lexington nonprofit  to make a life skills book for clients who are trying to get back on their feet.
The ESOL program at W&L, founded in 2001 to facilitate communication in the local community, now serves dozens of non-native English speakers each year with teaching, tutoring, translation and interpretation services.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, members of the Washington and Lee University community are finding ways to lend a hand with community relief efforts.
Sascha L. Goluboff, professor and chair of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Washington and Lee University, has been named the university’s next director of community-based learning. W&L Provost Marc Conner announced the three-year appointment, which will begin on July 1.
Washington and Lee University's Office of Community-Based Learning has partnered with Lexington on projects that provide real-world learning experiences for students while also advancing the city's goals.
Students in Leah Green's Intro to Creative Writing course took inspiration from the environment at Boxerwood Nature Center and Woodland Garden.
Students in Washington and Lee University's Electrical Circuits class sparked interest in local elementary students through a Community-Based Learning project that partnered with the Rockbridge Area YMCA after-school program. 
W&L courses in economics and biology used community-based learning to engage in partnerships and make an impact on food insecurity at a local level.
Through the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance program, W&L students used their knowledge to prepare taxes for local low-income and elderly residents.
At W&L, sustainability starts with a seed and blossoms into sea change. Take a peek inside our gardening and composting effort to see how it's impacting our community — and the future.
The students will provide basic preparation of state and federal income tax returns to qualified residents.
James Ricks '21 interviews Dr. Jonathan Wortham '04 about his work with the Centers for Disease Control.
Whether she's leading the Student Association for Black Unity, acting in a play or volunteering in the community as a Bonner Scholar, Sasha Edwards '20 is ever mindful that education can happen anywhere.
Blue Ridge Autism and Achievement Center’s Lexington branch recently held a grand opening celebration for a nature trail built by Washington and Lee University engineering students through a community partnership.
Balen Essak '20 interviews Maisie Osteen '14L about her experiences with the Shepherd Program and as an assistant public defender.
After taking a course at Augusta Correctional Center, two W&L juniors helped to organize an exhibition at the university featuring artwork by artists who are incarcerated. The exhibit is entitled “Unfreedom of Expression.” 
Xinxian Wang '21 was able to marry two interests in an internship with The Visual Arts Center in Richmond.
Washington and Lee students partnered with Eagle’s Nest Clubhouse members to create a 32-foot community mural around the theme of recovery.
The grant will help train faculty and community partners to implement new partnerships and courses.
A team of Washington and Lee engineering majors is designing and building a walking trail for children served by Blue Ridge Autism and Achievement Center’s Lexington location. 
Students in Meg Griffith’s Spring Term art class created public works of art to draw attention to important causes in the community.
A multi-disciplinary Community-Based Research project gave Washington and Lee University students a chance to help local organizations take a closer look at access to affordable healthy food.
Sejal Mistry ’17, a biology major and poverty studies minor, has completed a service project that aims to improve the nutritional value of foods in the Campus Kitchen at Washington and Lee’s Backpack Program.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Community-Based Learning archive.