The senior thesis exhibition will be on view April 1-12.
The interactive exhibition will run from Feb. 13 through March 25.
‘Salvador Dalí: Les Chants de Maldoror’ features original etchings from the surrealist and will run from Jan. 11 through Feb. 8.
The solo exhibition will run from Nov. 1 through Dec. 8, 2023.
The solo exhibition will run from Sept. 4 through Oct. 25 and kicks off the gallery’s fall season.
The solo exhibition will run from April 24 to May 25 in Staniar Gallery inside Washington and Lee University’s Lenfest Center for the Arts.
The Staniar Gallery at W&L will hold an exhibition of works by Adrienne Callander through March 17
Campus Kitchen’s annual event series continues with its Winter Term 2023 lineup, examining the many ways in which the food system interacts with social justice issues.
The solo exhibition by sculptor Sam Blanchard is on view until Feb. 8.
The show will be on view from Nov. 7-Dec. 9
The show will be on display in Wilson Hall’s Lykes Atrium in conjunction with Esteban Ramón Pérez’s solo exhibition “Distorted Myths,” which will be on view in the Staniar Gallery Oct. 10 through Nov. 2. 
The show will be on view from Oct. 10–Nov. 2.
Lepage’s talk “Borderlands Arts Pedagogy” will be held on Sept. 28.
Campus Kitchen’s annual event series examines the many ways in which the food system interacts with issues of justice.
Clover Archer’s work will be featured in the Art in Odd Places Story exhibition in New York City later this month.
The first of three fall exhibitions at Washington and Lee University’s Staniar Gallery is now open to the public.
Washington and Lee’s Staniar Gallery presents “Passage,” a retrospective exhibition of paintings celebrating the career of W&L’s Kathleen Olson. There will be a public reception for the show on May 7 at 5 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
The students’ work is on display in Staniar Gallery through April 9.
The show will be on view from Feb. 14 through March 18, and artist Leah Raintree will give a public talk on Feb. 15.
As part of its 2021-22 lecture series on daily ethics, the Roger Mudd Center for Ethics at Washington and Lee University partnered with Staniar Gallery and invited community members to participate in a collaborative art project called the Daily Ethics Mosaic, which is now on display in Wilson Hall's Lykes Atrium.
The exhibition titled “American Surrealist, paintings by Donald Nield (1924-1984)” will be on display through Feb. 9. Professor Elliot King will give a public lecture about Nield’s work on Jan. 18 at 5:30 p.m.
The large-scale community artwork created as part of a Mudd Center program will be on view in Wilson Hall's Lykes Atrium through Feb. 9. 
The exhibit, with works by Maria Cristina Tavera, will be on display Nov. 8-Dec. 3.
The exhibit reflects on women's right to vote.
The exhibition is the first comprehensive study of the artist's watercolors.
The photography exhibit will be on display April 26 through May 28, with a virtual artist talk on May 11 at 5:30 p.m.
The students’ work will be on display in Staniar Gallery starting March 29.
The April 8 talk is titled "Art as Transformation: Using Photography for Social Change."
In a recent in-class project, seven W&L students used materials found around campus to discuss a broader historical narrative and create a piece now on display in Staniar Gallery.
Opening Feb. 23, the exhibit will display the Vermont-based artist’s sculptural works. An artist’s talk is scheduled for Feb. 24.
Beavers’ exhibit will appear in Washington and Lee's Staniar Gallery from Jan. 17 through Feb. 18, with a virtual artist talk on Jan. 27 at 5:30 p.m. 
COVID-19 may have forced events to go virtual this Fall Term, but that means some guest speaker talks and art exhibits can still be enjoyed online.
The recent graduates’ work will be on display in Lykes Atrium.
"American Folk" is a series of photographic portraits by West Virginia-based artist Lisa Elmaleh. She will give a virtual artist's talk on Nov. 4 at 5:30 p.m.
The acclaimed group is known worldwide for promoting social justice and human rights for all people and genders. The virtual exhibit and lecture are free and open to the public.
“To See Color First,” the first comprehensive study of Louise Herreshoff Eaton’s bold and expressive watercolors, opens April 27 as a virtual exhibition.
W&L's studio art majors present their senior projects in an online exhibition.
The lecture is free and open to the public.
The artists will give a public presentation, followed by a reception, on Jan. 28 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
An exhibition of photographic works by Texas-based artist Mari Hernandez will open in Washington and Lee’s Staniar Gallery Nov. 5.
The works will be on display through Nov.1, with an artist’s talk and reception on Oct.16 at 5:30 p.m.
The works will be on display through Sept. 27, with an artist’s talk and reception on Sept. 18. 
 Artist Adriana Corral spent two days creating a site-specific wall drawing in W&L's Staniar Gallery to accompany her exhibition. Here's a look at that process.
The show will be on display from April 22–May 24.
Each spring, the W&L art department showcases the senior theses of studio majors in a professional gallery setting.
The artists will present their work in a talk on Feb. 12 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
The artist will give a public artist’s talk on Jan. 23 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall. 
The show will be on view Nov. 5 – Dec. 7.
Oring visited W&L in conjunction with her Staniar Gallery exhibit, "Writer's Block."
 The show will be on display Oct. 5 – Nov. 1.
A panel discussion and reception for "The Unfreedom of Expression: Artworks from the Augusta Correctional Center" will take place Sept. 13, but the exhibit will remain on display through Sept. 30.
After taking a course at Augusta Correctional Center, two W&L juniors helped to organize an exhibition at the university featuring artwork by artists who are incarcerated. The exhibit is entitled “Unfreedom of Expression.” 
The show will be on view Sept. 1-30. Oring will give a public artist’s talk on Sept. 26 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
Take a peek behind the Lenfest curtain for 2018-19.
The $7,000 Virginia Humanities grant will support an upcoming exhibit in Staniar Gallery.
The show will be on display April 23 – May 24. 
Gyatso is best known for his work mixing Buddhist iconography with pop imagery.
Bass will give a public artist’s talk on Jan. 22 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
The show will be on view through Dec. 8.
A public artist’s talk and reception will be held Oct. 18 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
A public artist’s talk and reception will be held on September 20 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
W&L's Staniar Gallery presents a traveling exhibition that explores the impact of immigration to the U.S. through artworks made by those who are left behind and often separated from their loved ones.
Six Washington and Lee University studio art students will present their senior thesis work in an exhibition at Staniar Gallery that runs from March 27-April 7.
W&L's Staniar Gallery is pleased to present erin o’Hara slavick’s exhibit “Illuminated Artifacts.” The show will be on display from Jan. 9 to Feb. 3, 2017.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Staniar Gallery archive.