Washington and Lee’s Class of 2023 includes nine recipients of the Certificate of International Immersion awarded by W&L’s Center for International Education.
Markley will start their role in the Japanese Exchange and Teaching (JET) Program by early August 2023.
Sharon Mendieta Ramirez ’23 has designed her W&L experience to prepare her for her career as an educator.
Washington and Lee's Center for International Education awarded two students funding to study Arabic at the University of Jordan this summer.
Tetiana Kozachanska ’26 is taking full advantage of her first year at Washington and Lee.
English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) invites the community to a holiday gathering on Dec. 5. 
After his USTA program orientation in September, Tinsley will teach in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
After her USTA program orientation in September, Joey Dickinson will be teaching in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
Three members of the Class of 2022 will spend seven months in the Teaching Assistant Program in France (TAPIF) teaching English to public school.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Nick Mosher '22 always finds support at W&L, whether he's writing a thesis on Russian politics, starting an online human rights newspaper or helping the football team win ODACs.
Lucas Flood '21 fell for W&L when he saw it for the first time on a family road trip, and he's found it an ideal place to study history and German. 
Debris from the aftermath of the Hiroshima bombing found its way to W&L’s Special Collections, where it heightened one class’s understanding of a powerful Japanese novel.  
Cindy Irby, assistant director of international education and study abroad advisor at W&L, says her experience as a member of Up with People — which included participation in a Super Bowl halftime show — helps to inspire her as she makes study abroad opportunities possible for W&L students.
Despite COVID-19, Jared Nickodem '20 was able to make it to Austria, where he is teaching English to students as part of the U.S. Teaching Assistant Program.
When her Critical Language Scholarship to China went virtual because of COVID, Kisker '21 got a six-week sampler of the country and its language through her computer screen.
Bo Garfinkel '21 talks about the experiences she's been afforded recently as a recipient of a Public Policy and International Affairs fellowship and a Gilman Scholarship.
Four Washington and Lee University students are spending time this summer in Beirut, where they are immersed in Arabic language and Lebanese culture.
Christina Cheadle ’16 is a community and events manager for KonMari Media Inc., the company founded by tidying expert and Netflix star Marie Kondo.
Thanks to an exchange program funded by the Japanese government, a group of W&L students spent Washington Break immersed in the culture of Japan—and welcomed Kanazawa University students to W&L one month later.
Daniel Rhoades '19 spent the summer immersed in the language and culture of Costa Rica.
Catherine Savoca ’19 explored the real estate development industry this summer as a sales and marketing intern in Lisbon, Portugal.
Jackson Ellis '19 is working with a German consulting agency to help international student-athletes navigate the college application process.
The assistant professor of Spanish, who devotes time both inside and outside the classroom to writing and translating poetry, recently compiled a book of poems written by incarcerated undocumented teens.
Lee Sommerfeldt '18 found a home away from home in a honky-tonk in the heart of Tokyo.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Xiaoxia Yin '20 and Sesha Carrier '20 to study traditional folk singing in China.
Professor George Bent and his team of students are working on a digital recreation of Florence that Bent describes as the “project of his career.”
Hannah Palmatary '18 spent the summer discovering the ancient ruins of Greece, as well as her own talent and passion for creative writing.
Alora Martin, who is participating in an intensive language program for Arabic in Amman, Jordan, sees studying abroad as a necessary part of a modern education.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete World Languages archive.