Scott’s passion for the environment carries over from the classroom to opportunities on campus and beyond.
The first-year student says the Outing Club and W&L's proximity to great hiking and kayaking spots were a big draw.
Peter Grajzl is the John F. Hendon Professor of Economics.
Mauricio Betancourt is an assistant professor of environmental studies.
Michael Rhodes is the manager of copying services.
Anna Billias is a lecturer in music and collaborative pianist.
Bryan Snyder ’95 is the head volleyball coach and associate director of athletics for finance.
Sascha Goluboff is a professor of cultural anthropology and serves as director for both the Community-Based Learning program and the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty.
Ryan Connell is the athletics broadcaster and athletics multimedia creative specialist.
Susan Wager is the assistant director of the Lenfest Center.
Meghan Ferguson serves as the financial aid coordinator for the university.
Suzannah Vess is a systems administrator in human resources.
Ben Schlief is the associate director of recreation.
Sadie Charles Calame ’23 has built a well-rounded college experience through campus and community involvement.
The Outing Club debuts two new climbing structures on campus.
In addition to pursuing a double major at Washington and Lee, Jackson Hotchkiss ’24 is a competitive cycler who just placed fourth in his age group in a national cycling championship.
W&L's students and visitors will find lots to explore in and around Lexington this year.
W&L has allowed Christopher Watt '21 to meet other members of the community and find a future career where three of his passions converge.
COVID-19 distancing made it difficult for climbers to meet at the Outing Club Barn, but three new climbing walls inside the Pavilion mean students can get together to train once again.
Volunteers have expanded and improved the system of trails on Washington and Lee University’s back campus, making them easier to navigate and convenient for users with different interests and abilities.
The challenges of student life during the COVID-19 pandemic are pervasive, but students—and the W&L staff supporting them—are rising to the occasion.
At W&L, Mary North Jones has been able to pursue interests in both European history and medicine as she builds a foundation for her career.
Nominations for W&L’s LEAD Banquet Awards allow any member of the university community to recognize a student or group’s outstanding contributions in one or more of 23 areas.
The popular pre-orientation program for first-year students at Washington and Lee University this year added a trip dedicated to black history and the civil rights movement. 
For Women's History Month, the W&L Outing Club hosted a series of events to highlight and encourage female participation and leadership in outdoor adventure.
The Geology and Archaeology departments collaborated with W&L's Outing Club to create a fun, educational hike just a short drive from Lexington.
At W&L, a combination of incredible courses, extracurricular opportunities and a warm community made for an experience Will Shannon '19 calls "uniquely mine."
Becoming a part of the Outing Club at Washington and Lee completely changed Matt Richards's college experience. "My time with the Outing Club has without a doubt had the biggest impact on my time here," he said.
Washington Break at W&L is about exploration, whether that discovery involves Texas mountaintops, Japanese culture or career opportunities in New York.
Members of the W&L Outing Club spent a recent Saturday cleaning graffiti from rocks at Devil’s Marbleyard.
The house's new Bike Shop offers free and low-cost rentals, lessons on bike maintenance, and opportunities for exploring the outdoors on two wheels.
Paddling excursions hosted by W&L's Outing Club this summer gave employees and families a chance to play while students were away.
Bob Chandler ’92 charts his own course as co-owner of omnichannel retailer Tactics.
W&L Outing Club's latest international trip took 15 cyclists on a bike tour through Italy.
More than any other experience at W&L, the Outing Club has taught Bowen Spottswood '18 about living life joyfully.
Matthew Rickert '18 completed the daunting task of updating the "Outing Club Guidebook."
The event celebrated many individual and student accomplishments.
Check in with head sherpas as they pack for Appalachian Adventure, one of W&L's Leading Edge pre-orientation programs for first-year students.
For many students at Washington and Lee, the Outing Club is about more than outdoor adventure — it’s about finding a place that feels a little bit like home.
Washington and Lee students are on the move thanks to a robust collection of club sports, intramurals and exercise classes.
Guen splits his time between hiking the mountains of Rockbridge and traveling the world.
Whether they were doing service work in Birmingham, touring firms in NYC, or climbing an ice-encrusted mountain in New Hampshire, Washington and Lee students made the most of Washington Break.
Meet Lenny Enkhbold '17, a computer scientist with a passion for the outdoors, who isn't afraid to have a good laugh.
Meet Harry Lustig ‘17, a scholar-explorer who’s hiked everywhere from the Blue Ridge to Alaska.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Outing Club archive.