The second annual Philanthropy Education Week highlighted the impact donations have on the undergraduate experience.
Total giving to all areas reached an impressive $73.9 million, the second highest total in W&L history.
Laura Adelman Philipson ’01 and Hayley Huber ’23 discuss their experiences as W&L students.
The campus-wide initiative highlights the relationship between university donations and the undergraduate student experience with a week-long series of events, March 6-9.
Joe Framptom '66 and Nate Unger '24 discuss their experiences as W&L students.
Caroline Boone Mitchell ’89 and Peyton Tysinger ’23 discuss their experiences as W&L students.
Tracey Thornblade Belmont '92 and Posi Oluwakuyide ’24 discuss their experiences as W&L students.
Hardin Marion and Carter Chandler discuss their experiences as W&L students.
Missy Witherow moves on while Sydney Cross is promoted to Director of Annual Giving.
Molly Myers serves as associate director of annual giving.
What started as a “Tale of Two Evans” 33 years ago has sparked a new friendship for first years Max Patterson and Spratt Allison. 
Endowment Remembering Jack Vardaman ’62 Will Support W&L Golf Teams
Sanchez plans to pursue graduate study in public policy after graduation.
Schwartz hopes to enter the medical field to continue helping people.
Brinker makes her mark on Florence, Italy’s digital history.
The annual event brought 1,800 people to campus.
Wimberly and Richard McPhail P’24 share their thoughts on the W&L Experience, community and the Parents Leadership Council 
W&L Library and Institutional History staff joined Mellon-funded initiative On These Grounds with several partner universities to catalog events in enslaved people’s lives.
Kenny Melvin was elected by his peers to serve a two-year term.
The STEM-focused endowment will support internships, research opportunities, academic conference costs and other student experiences.
James Torbert ’23 interviewed Cynthia Cheatham ’07 to learn more about her dedication to Washington and Lee.
Kaylin Jury ’24 interviewed Phifer Helms ’74 to learn more about his service and commitment to Washington and Lee.
Max Weaver ’23 interviewed Andrew Tate ’98 to learn more about his service and commitment to Washington and Lee.
Will Bou ’24 interviewed longtime volunteer Farris Hotchkiss ’58 to learn more about his service and dedication to Washington and Lee.
Smith O’Leary ’23 interviewed Bowen Spottswood ’18 to learn more about her dedication to Washington and Lee.
Margaret Thompson ’24 interviewed Maurice “Moe” Cole ’94 to learn more about his service and commitment to Washington and Lee.
Alex Petras ’24 interviewed Julia Gsell ’18 to learn more about her dedication to Washington and Lee.
Kailyn Jury ’24 interviewed Nelson Bunn ’08 to learn more about his service and commitment to Washington and Lee.
A group of W&L students plan a week-long series of events dedicated to philanthropy education and sharing gratitude.
Mitchell Salvino ’23 is spearheading a fundraiser with his W&L baseball teammates to benefit the Angel Fund.
Johansen plans to head to Eastern Europe after graduation to serve Ukrainian refugees.
Sam Hollis ’51 and Jimmy Gallivan ’51 met at W&L, sparking a friendship spanning 75 years.
John Adekola ’24 sees his role with Phonathon as a chance to make a difference at W&L.
AJ Mabaka '22 plans to attend a graduate program in marine science and conservation  policy.
Young alumnus Alden Schade shares why he gives back to W&L.
Young alumna and current law student Cat Spencer '20, '23L shares her perspective on W&L and giving back.
Kevin Batteh '95, '98L is W&L's first Bitcoin donor.
From serving on his 10th reunion committee to establishing a scholarship, Yuan Liu '11 proves that W&L ties span continents.
Dick Stuart '37 celebrated his 88-year relationship with W&L by making his leadership gift to the Annual Fund.
When Bette Lathrop named Washington and Lee as one of the beneficiaries of her charitable remainder trust, bridges were on her mind, and one in particular. 
Jay Thomas '03 was able to attend W&L with the help of a scholarship, and now he and his wife are paying it forward.
Jamaal Jones '16 shares how his W&L education has shaped his life.
Susan Wood Cunningham, director of leadership giving at Washington and Lee, has been selected as the university’s executive director of university development, effective December 1, 2020.
The Board of Trustees approved renaming CARPE in memory of Houston H. Harte '50.
A decade after the building's dedication, W&L Hillel shines brighter than ever.
Junie Bishop '41 created a fixed-term charitable trust 20 years ago that will make a significant difference at W&L in 2020.
For Su and Rob Minor '71, planned giving is not about the past; it’s about building a better future. 
Helen and Bob Cairns '57 created two gift annuities to express their love and appreciation for W&L.
In honor of what would have been her 25th reunion, Boone's family and friends celebrated her legacy through gifts that will have a tangible impact on W&L.
A group of dedicated alumni took action to leverage meaningful changes on campus to increase inclusion and diversity.
A group of his former students and colleagues established the James Tyler Dickovick Internship in International Affairs, Global Political Economy and the Public Interest Endowment in his memory.
Jennings will start on August 10 and will succeed Dennis Cross, who is stepping down at the end of the calendar year after serving 16 years as W&L’s V.P. of university advancement.
Recipients of the John M. Gunn International Scholarship met with its namesake in February and shared how the program has made a difference in their lives.
The Kauders family talks about their experience joining the W&L Community.
Leadership donors Anne and Tom MacCowatt P'18, '22 share why they continue to invest in W&L and why they chose to support CARPE.
Dennis W. Cross, vice president for university advancement at Washington and Lee University, has announced his retirement effective December 31, 2020.
Jim Early ’59 and his husband Garland Tillery established the James R. Early ’59 Endowment for LGBTQ Programming to help W&L's LGBTQ students engage fully with the wider university community.
With a Nod to the Future, Preston C. Manning '52 Gives Back to Honor a Long and Rewarding Life Shaped Immeasurably by W&L.
W&L's March 14 Give Day began at midnight and ended 24 hours later with more than 2,500 donors choosing to support Washington and Lee University. From coast to coast, first-years to Five-Stars, the W&L community stepped up in a big way on Give Day to put students on a path to success.
Reid Calhoun ‘17 shares how his vision for the future inspires his annual giving.
Late professor emeritus Harry Pemberton is the first W&L faculty member to be recognized as an Honored Benefactor.
Three donors have recognized the role coaches play in educating and mentoring W&L students, both in the competitive arena and in the classroom.
When Tyler Lenczuk ’08 married Danielle Galanti in July 2014, they were given a gift like no other — a named scholarship fund to benefit future Washington and Lee students with financial need. 
As construction continues on W&L's new, state-of-the-art Richard L. Duchossois Athletic and Recreation Center, we offer a virtual tour—no hard hat required!
The Benjamin Borden Grant, the original grant for the land on which W&L now sits, turns 279 this month. It has been conserved and is stored in W&L's Special Collections.
The 25th reunion committee chose to name the office, with a fundraising goal of $1 million, to help all W&L students thrive.
W&L welcomed more than 800 families to campus for Parents and Family Weekend 2018.
Friends and classmates of Jeanne de Saussure Smith ’08 have dedicated an E. E. Cummings painting to W&L in her memory.
Watch the short video about our Phonathon team to find out who’s on the other end of the line here at W&L.
Ed Spencer ’53, who has made plans to support a scholarship fund at W&L, is still a cornerstone of the university 17 years after his retirement.
The Professor Sidney M.B. Coulling ’46 Scholarship Endowment.
Charles Philip Blackledge ’38 gifted an important and fascinating collection of Roman coins to Washington and Lee Special Collections.
Washington and Lee has received a $2.5 million gift from Hal F. and Barbra Buckner Higginbotham to endow the university librarian position.
Kathelen and Daniel Amos made the gift in memory of her son, John Kyle Spencer, a 2013 graduate of W&L. Professor Robert Humston (pictured) will be the new director.
When he arrived on campus in 1954, it would have been hard for Farris Hotchkiss ’58 to imagine celebrating his upcoming 60th reunion.
W&L will name its new indoor athletics and recreation facility for Duchossois '44 in recognition of his leadership support of the project.
His generous gift will help deserving young scholars, who might come from less fortunate circumstances, be able to attend W&L.
Washington and Lee University celebrated the classes of 1962 and 1957 during the Five-Star Festival November 2 – 4, 2017. In honor of its 55th reunion, the Class of 1962 met recipients of The Class of 1962 Faculty Fellows Fund, an endowment that the class established in 1987 during its 25th reunion. 
As we near the end of 2017, Washington and Lee reunion classes are preparing not only for a festive and memorable Alumni Weekend, but also for making a significant impact on current students.
Ethiopia Getachew '19 always had an interest in science, but working in the biochemistry lab and volunteering with local EMTs helped her future plans take shape.
The gift supports the education — both theoretical and practical — of budding journalists.
The scholarship honors his "father and mother who made a real sacrifice so that I might be able to go to W&L."
Annual Fund Sets New Record in 2016-17
Receiving a thunderous standing ovation after performing in the Stern Auditorium of Carnegie Hall in New York was “truly one of those great life events” for the University Singers, according to Director Shane Lynch.
Washington and Lee University’s new natatorium is open!
The Ruscio Center for Global Learning has brought to life the vision of the many donors and advocates who wanted to see global learning elevated at W&L.
The environment at W&L was transformative in the sense that everything you did was governed by the Honor System. You were your own disciplinarian. I had never experienced anything like this, and it made an impact that stayed with me throughout my business and personal life. I attribute my success in business to this.
One sign that the 2017 PLC Spring Weekend was a smash hit: parents concluded the weekend asking “How soon can we book our hotel rooms for next year?”
“What makes the 25th and 50th reunion gifts special is the opportunity for the classes to decide what their collective legacy is going to be to W&L,” says Jessica Cohen, W&L’s 25th reunion gift officer, who has overseen the 25th reunion gift campaign since 2006.
Every once in a while someone comes along who reminds us that philanthropy is both profoundly creative and simpler than we think. For Eileen Small ’15, being a philanthropist is as simple as taking the ideas you have for how things could be better and doing something about them.
Roy Matthews's shaky start at W&L did not hint at his future career as a successful university professor. During a recent telephone conversation from his home in Washington, D.C. he described his journey from struggling during his first term at W&L to being a history scholar and author. He also talked about his decision to support the W&L History Department, where his journey began, through his IRA.
When Lou Hodges died in February, the W&L community mourned for an educator and proponent of social justice whose impact on the campus still looms large. But now the community can celebrate because Lou's name is permanently memorialized at the school he served for 43 years.
Dr. Robert (Bob) L. Holt '67 adeptly leveraged the IRA Charitable Rollover provision to establish an endowment on the occasion of his Class of 1967 50th Reunion that also honors two admired W&L mentors, the late Chemistry Professor Keith Shillington and History Professor and friend Ted DeLaney.
Ben Cummings '67, '70L is honoring his 50th reunion with a generous gift benefiting the Class of 1967 Scholarship.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete University Advancement archive.