Scott’s passion for the environment carries over from the classroom to opportunities on campus and beyond.
Washington and Lee's Generals Activities Board has taken a dynamic approach to bringing the student body together through live music.
The first-year student says the Outing Club and W&L's proximity to great hiking and kayaking spots were a big draw.
Peter Grajzl is the John F. Hendon Professor of Economics.
Laura Murambadoro ’26 brings varied interests, a collaborative leadership style and a passion for community engagement to W&L’s campus.
Mauricio Betancourt is an assistant professor of environmental studies.
Michael Rhodes is the manager of copying services.
Anna Billias is a lecturer in music and collaborative pianist.
Bryan Snyder ’95 is the head volleyball coach and associate director of athletics for finance.
Washington and Lee’s chapter of Remote Area Medical takes students to remote rural areas to provide medical services and gain valuable practical experience along the way.
Sascha Goluboff is a professor of cultural anthropology and serves as director for both the Community-Based Learning program and the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty.
Ryan Connell is the athletics broadcaster and athletics multimedia creative specialist.
Susan Wager is the assistant director of the Lenfest Center.
Meghan Ferguson serves as the financial aid coordinator for the university.
Suzannah Vess is a systems administrator in human resources.
Washington and Lee’s Interfraternity Council, National Panhellenic Conference and National Pan-Hellenic Council focus on community-building, education and fundraising throughout the year.
Washington and Lee students are making a dynamic impact in the community through National Pan-Hellenic Council organizations.
Ben Schlief is the associate director of recreation.
W&L’s new offsite solar array, now fully operational, represents the university’s biggest leap to date toward an energy-independent future. 
The university’s Campus Garden is a dedicated space growing organic produce for both the campus and local community.
The Leadership Excellence Awards give recognition and thanks to nominated students and organizations for their many efforts on W&L’s campus.
The Fancy Dress committee works year-round to ensure this cherished campus tradition continues.
Mock Convention made its Spring Kickoff event an informative preview of upcoming convention conversations.
The W&L community event will be held on Tuesday, March 21, at 6 p.m. in W&L’s University Chapel.
Mock Convention is gathering steam as the organization prepares for its Spring Kickoff event on March 21.
Tetiana Kozachanska ’26 is taking full advantage of her first year at Washington and Lee.
For more than 20 years, ESOL volunteers have participated in language and literacy work in the Lexington-Rockbridge area and beyond.
Washington and Lee’s second annual Greek Leadership Institute provides students with foundational leadership skills and a chance to connect before formal recruitment begins.
Ulmer previously worked as director for the Office of Student Conduct and Academic Integrity at Old Dominion University.
Sadie Charles Calame ’23 has built a well-rounded college experience through campus and community involvement.
English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) invites the community to a holiday gathering on Dec. 5. 
The upcoming screening is the second installment in the DeLaney Center's ongoing film series.
The Nuestro Hogar Latino theme house's new location accommodates more students and offers expanded space for programming.
The recent renovation of the second and third floors of Elrod Commons has provided staff and students with new and improved workspaces.
The Outing Club debuts two new climbing structures on campus.
The annual event brought 1,800 people to campus.
Join members of the W&L choral program for a Parents and Family Weekend choral concert on Sept. 30, at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
Programa SOL, a three-week program for local bilingual youth, focused on language and literacy development, swimming lessons, active games and visits with community partners.
Washington and Lee students can now explore the Headspace app’s mental health and wellness features thanks to the generous support of alumni Greg and Kelly Golub. 
Bri Mondesir ’22 has found her purpose through volunteer work in the Rockbridge area community as a scholar in the Bonner Program at W&L.
The Weinstein Scholar annual program invited students to take a culinary trip around the world without leaving the Washington and Lee campus.
A group of W&L students plan a week-long series of events dedicated to philanthropy education and sharing gratitude.
Members of the Washington and Lee University community are responding to last month’s incursion by offering educational opportunities and raising funds for relief efforts.
The two-day training provided leadership development opportunities designed specifically for W&L’s Greek community leaders.
Amelia Lancaster '22 has used her W&L experience to explore a number of interests, ultimately finding a passion in museum studies and Chinese that has allowed her to co-curate a museum exhibition on campus.
In addition to pursuing a double major at Washington and Lee, Jackson Hotchkiss ’24 is a competitive cycler who just placed fourth in his age group in a national cycling championship.
At W&L, student volunteers in the peer counseling program, Washingtonian Society and Active Minds supplement University Counseling Center services by offering a caring ear to fellow students.
The Washington and Lee University community this year will remember the tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001, with a memorial ceremony, prayer vigil and placing of 2,977 American flags.
W&L's students and visitors will find lots to explore in and around Lexington this year.
Reimbursable experiences include the Virginia Safari Park, Natural Bridge, Hull's Drive-in, and coffee and a pastry at Season's Yield Farm.
Washington and Lee University’s Office of Inclusion and Engagement recently released a video featuring members of W&L’s Asian and Pacific Islander community, calling on the world to notice, and end, incidents of hate.
W&L has allowed Christopher Watt '21 to meet other members of the community and find a future career where three of his passions converge.
COVID-19 distancing made it difficult for climbers to meet at the Outing Club Barn, but three new climbing walls inside the Pavilion mean students can get together to train once again.
The Student Association for Black Unity will hold the online event, which is free and open to the public to watch online.
Jerónimo Reyes '21 says he is so immensely grateful for the gifts in his life, including a QuestBridge scholarship to W&L, that he wants to become a doctor and devote his career to helping others. 
The students in charge of Washington and Lee University’s WLULEX social media accounts are taking on an unusual challenge in 2020: finding ways to increase campus happiness during a pandemic.
Hillel International’s civic engagement initiative challenged campuses across the country to get students engaged in the presidential election, and W&L Hillel led the way.
Volunteers have expanded and improved the system of trails on Washington and Lee University’s back campus, making them easier to navigate and convenient for users with different interests and abilities.
The virtual Q&A is open to the W&L community.
Enuma Anekwe-Desince '22 has found her niche at Washington and Lee University through her involvement in the Advanced Immersion and Mentoring Program, leadership roles in student organizations, and work as a research assistant in the sociology and psychology departments.
The challenges of student life during the COVID-19 pandemic are pervasive, but students—and the W&L staff supporting them—are rising to the occasion.
At W&L, Mary North Jones has been able to pursue interests in both European history and medicine as she builds a foundation for her career.
The Africana Studies Program at W&L, in partnership with the Rupert H. Johnson Jr. Program in Leadership and Integrity, will host a series of events focused on activism and Black life. It kicks off Aug. 26 with a panel discussion featuring three W&L faculty members.
As Executive Committee president for the 2020-21 school year, Chase Calhoun '21 hopes to protect the Honor System and make a positive impact in areas of racial inequality and systemic racism.
With help from Hillel International, Director of Jewish Life Maggie Shapiro Haskett has been able to successfully adapt programming to suit the new normal.
The ESOL program at W&L, founded in 2001 to facilitate communication in the local community, now serves dozens of non-native English speakers each year with teaching, tutoring, translation and interpretation services.
Washington and Lee University’s Student Affairs staff worked tirelessly to support students through the COVID-19 pandemic and the move to virtual instruction.
At W&L, Eric Herrera did field work in Ghana, created a biotech startup, and discovered the original location of the Alamo.
At W&L, Katherine Ingram '20 found a research interest—and a future profession—where environmental studies meets economics.
Working in Italy, starring in theater productions and being involved in Generals' Unity are just a few of the experiences that have made W&L a great fit for Win Gustin '20.
W&L’s first Black Future Leaders Experience (FLEX) conference brought alumni and staff together to mentor students from across central Virginia on how to thrive in white spaces, navigate politics and serve as leaders.
In February, students from PAACE and SAIL raised over $650 from around 50 donors to support coronavirus relief in China.
Nominations for W&L’s LEAD Banquet Awards allow any member of the university community to recognize a student or group’s outstanding contributions in one or more of 23 areas.
The Native American Cohort, which was created by faculty and staff with native heritage, aims to illuminate Native American history and culture, beginning with special events for Native American Heritage Month in November.
The popular pre-orientation program for first-year students at Washington and Lee University this year added a trip dedicated to black history and the civil rights movement. 
Screaming Minks rugby, the oldest sports club at W&L, this year capped a season of hard work and camaraderie with a trip to the national championship.
For Women's History Month, the W&L Outing Club hosted a series of events to highlight and encourage female participation and leadership in outdoor adventure.
The Geology and Archaeology departments collaborated with W&L's Outing Club to create a fun, educational hike just a short drive from Lexington.
Garrett Clinton '20 says attending W&L is "like being dropped into a pool of opportunities.'' 
At W&L, a combination of incredible courses, extracurricular opportunities and a warm community made for an experience Will Shannon '19 calls "uniquely mine."
At W&L, sustainability starts with a seed and blossoms into sea change. Take a peek inside our gardening and composting effort to see how it's impacting our community — and the future.
Becoming a part of the Outing Club at Washington and Lee completely changed Matt Richards's college experience. "My time with the Outing Club has without a doubt had the biggest impact on my time here," he said.
Washington Break at W&L is about exploration, whether that discovery involves Texas mountaintops, Japanese culture or career opportunities in New York.
Andy Smithey '20 is editor-in-chief of a new student publication, founded by Liv Cooper '20 and Genna Feirson '20, that aims to amplify unheard voices on campus.
The Office of Inclusion and Engagement planned a host of events to honor the legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. Take our slideshow for a quick spin to relive the excitement.
Hannah Denham '20 has combined business journalism with women and gender studies at W&L to create a liberal arts education that suits her interests and ambition.
What A Racket, a nonprofit community service organization founded by Catherine Savoca '19, teaches Rockbridge-area kids the fundamentals of tennis and fitness.
 Women in Technology workshops introduced Ruopeng Zhang '21 and Caroline Blackmon '19 to basic web development in a collaborative and fun environment. They urge other students to take advantage of the next round of workshops.
Members of the W&L Outing Club spent a recent Saturday cleaning graffiti from rocks at Devil’s Marbleyard.
Whether he's working with the Williams Investment Society or playing jazz guitar, Joe Wen '19 makes the most of his W&L experience.
The weekly coffeehouse event took a chilling turn to celebrate All Hallows' Eve.
Dannick Kenon '19, who plans to attend law school and devote his career to positive social change, has co-founded a new student publication at W&L called The Vigil.
The house's new Bike Shop offers free and low-cost rentals, lessons on bike maintenance, and opportunities for exploring the outdoors on two wheels.
Whether she's leading the Student Association for Black Unity, acting in a play or volunteering in the community as a Bonner Scholar, Sasha Edwards '20 is ever mindful that education can happen anywhere.
Jesse Evans '20 spent his summer ensuring that this year's summit, which took place Sept. 21-22, would be a success. 
A philanthropic twist on AirBnB, W&L's Habitat Hotel raises thousands for much-needed affordable housing in Rockbridge.
Paddling excursions hosted by W&L's Outing Club this summer gave employees and families a chance to play while students were away.
Bob Chandler ’92 charts his own course as co-owner of omnichannel retailer Tactics.
As the incoming EC president, Elizabeth Mugo ’19 wants to make all students feel that they, too, have a place at W&L.
W&L Outing Club's latest international trip took 15 cyclists on a bike tour through Italy.
More than any other experience at W&L, the Outing Club has taught Bowen Spottswood '18 about living life joyfully.
Truth Iyiewuare '18 looks back at his growth as a member—and then president—of the Student Association for Black Unity at W&L.  
Senior Stephanie Williams '18 says W&L's First-Generation Low-Income Partnership (FLIP) gave her support to overcome obstacles and mentor other low-income students.
Matthew Rickert '18 completed the daunting task of updating the "Outing Club Guidebook."
Ayo Ehindero ’21 and Julia Habiger ’21 created an initiative to bridge the gap between Greek life and minority students.
Reese and two friends brought the First-Generation Low-Income Partnership to W&L, where it provides resources and a voice for students.
The FLIP program at W&L was proposed by students who saw a need for more resources on campus. 
Washington Break gave students a chance for learning and personal development, as well as all-out fun.
The event celebrated many individual and student accomplishments.
Students gathered at the bouldering wall in the Outing Club Barn to reach new heights in a friendly competition.
Women in Technology and Science gives girls from local middle and elementary schools an opportunity to perform science experiments in all disciplines during the academic year.
Washington and Lee students took to the court on Jan. 14 to raise money for a local nonprofit and celebrate the life of Martin Luther King Jr. 
Money Matters Week, sponsored by the First-Generation Low-Income Partnership at W&L, runs Oct. 1-6.
Check in with head sherpas as they pack for Appalachian Adventure, one of W&L's Leading Edge pre-orientation programs for first-year students.
For many students at Washington and Lee, the Outing Club is about more than outdoor adventure — it’s about finding a place that feels a little bit like home.
Washington and Lee students are on the move thanks to a robust collection of club sports, intramurals and exercise classes.
W&L's undergraduate mock trial team is now ranked 16th nationally.
Brett Becker '18 and the W&L Pre-Dental Club teamed up with Rockbridge Area Health Center to distribute dental supplies to more than 700 local children.
Guen splits his time between hiking the mountains of Rockbridge and traveling the world.
Many individual and student accomplishments were recognized at this year's LEAD Banquet on April 2.
Whether they were doing service work in Birmingham, touring firms in NYC, or climbing an ice-encrusted mountain in New Hampshire, Washington and Lee students made the most of Washington Break.
Meet Lenny Enkhbold '17, a computer scientist with a passion for the outdoors, who isn't afraid to have a good laugh.
Meet Harry Lustig ‘17, a scholar-explorer who’s hiked everywhere from the Blue Ridge to Alaska.
Taylor Gulotta '17 discusses the challenges and rewards of stage managing the fall 2016 Bentley Musical "The Theory of Relativity."
The new musical, inspired by the actual stories of the millennial generation, celebrates the connections that unite and define us. .
Co-directors of W&L Student Consulting keep their teams organized to deliver for the client.
Washington and Lee's Outing Club travels to Nepal for eight-day Khumbu trek.
Accounting and Business Administration major lends her planning skills to the annual Souper Bowl benefit for the Campus Kitchen Backpack Program.
A group of Washington and Lee students spent February break constructing a bio-sand water filter for a school in Belmopan, Belize.
The General Flyers club draws on engineering skills and IQ Center resources to design and fabricate an unmanned, electric-powered, radio-controlled aircraft.
"It is the strength of community and society that really makes W&L more than simply another great university."
"One of my goals is to bring Hillel to the students — to show them that we're here, and that we're here for everyone. ".
"My W&L experience is defined by a multitude of activities, academics, and opportunities."
"At W&L you learn so much more in your interactions with others than what you see in the classroom."
Student Group Gets Messy for the Environment.
"This university can open many doors for its students, most of them unexpected."
Sophomore Brett Becker has started the Pre-dental Club for Washington and Lee students who want to study dentistry and to volunteer in the community.
"Both my academic and extracurricular involvement have fostered an interest in entrepreneurship, which has led me to work for a startup through Venture for America next year."
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Student Organizations archive.