Yurechko ’24 is the university’s first Marshall Scholar.
Pernell has been awarded a Young Professional Journalist Program Award to conduct research and gain career experience in Germany.
Avalon Pernell ’23 credits the mentorship she received on campus as she launches her career in business journalism.
Phillips '23 is the university’s 18th Rhodes Scholar.
Tripathi will teach English to students in Colombia for 10 months.
After receiving a great deal of support from upperclassmen at Washington and Lee University, Hannah Puckett ’23 pays it forward by dedicating her time to mentoring and counseling first-year students.
Lauren Hoaglund '22 has parlayed her passion for medieval and Renaissance history, literature, classics and theater into a busy but rewarding four years at W&L.
Paige Anderson '22 is spending the summer recording an album of classical violin music in memory of her grandmother.
Everything has fallen into place at W&L for Alankrit Shatadal '21, who complemented her academic experience with research, peer counseling and membership in University Singers. 
Kathryn Muensterman ’22 has won a $34,000 Beinecke Scholarship to help fund her graduate studies.
Rafay Hassan '22 was looking for a liberal arts university that would give him individualized attention and put his critical thinking skills to the test. He found that and more at W&L. 
James Ricks ’21 plans to work this summer with the Oda Foundation in Nepal.
On April 3 at 8 p.m., Fuller will showcase her insight and creativity in a series of original compositions performed by W&L student performers.
Song will perform selections by composers J. S. Bach, Antonín Leopold Dvořák, Dmitri Shostakovich and James Stephenson for her senior cello recital on April 2 at 8 p.m.
Each scholar is awarded $7,500 to support undergraduate research in their junior or senior year.
At W&L, Lorena Terroba Urruchua ’21 found her purpose — helping people with disabilities — at the intersection of psychology, Romance languages and poverty studies. 
At W&L, Mary North Jones has been able to pursue interests in both European history and medicine as she builds a foundation for her career.
At W&L, Katherine Ingram '20 found a research interest—and a future profession—where environmental studies meets economics.
A class in Denmark, an internship in India and lots of eye-opening experiences in the Lexington community have encouraged Amanda Dorsey '21 to advocate for inclusion in the public health field.
Lainey Johnson '16 values connections with a variety of people from different backgrounds, which is something she learned to prize at W&L. 
Luke Basham '20 parlays a passion for politics into the challenging role of Democratic Party analyst for Mock Con 2020.
Hannah Denham ’20 won first place in a prestigious feature writing competition for a piece she wrote during an internship at The Washington Post.
Gabriele, a 2019 graduate, is the university’s 17th Rhodes Scholar.
Senior Laura Calhoun looks back at her W&L experience and celebrates the community she's built here. 
Julianna Keeling ’19 applied her passion for the environment to build a company focused on biodegradable consumer products. 
For students like Lourdes Arana '21, the London Internship Program combines course work, internships and alumni support to create an unforgettable educational experience.
Ben Peeples '21 is enjoying a chemistry internship at Brown University while training for the World Canoeing Championships in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Through coursework and connections, Hannah Archer '20 helped to create a school food service program to ensure that local children have enough to eat during the summer. 
James Ricks '21 is spending the summer working for The Oda Foundation in Nepal, where he is researching tobacco use and working with children to create a mural that represents health in their town.
 Each scholar is awarded $7,500 to support undergraduate research in their junior or senior year.
 The scholarship was created to encourage more American students to study in the Middle East. 
Washington and Lee University senior Kathryn McEvoy ’19 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain for summer 2019. 
Dau will live and work in Vienna for nine months.
Margaret Kallus ’19 will be the second W&L alumna to join a team of economists at the Harvard University research institute, Opportunity Insights.
Hannah Denham '20 has combined business journalism with women and gender studies at W&L to create a liberal arts education that suits her interests and ambition.
Deepthi Thumuluri '20 won a Virginia Academy of Sciences grant to continue her research into the relationship between diet-induced obesity, exercise and the gut microbiome.
Daniel Rhoades '19 spent the summer immersed in the language and culture of Costa Rica.
Anne Rodgers '20 completed a 2018 summer internship with Asylee Women Enterprise (AWE) through the Shepherd Program. These are her reflections.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Midha Ahmad '21 and Sawera Khan '21 to spend the summer in Pakistan, where they compared alternative medicine to traditional treatment.
Jesse Evans '20 spent his summer ensuring that this year's summit, which took place Sept. 21-22, would be a success. 
The Critical Language Scholarship Program has allowed Riley Ries '19 to strengthen his Russian and learn more about politics and culture in Kyrgyzstan.
Attending the Princeton Environmental Ideathon was a natural progression for Julianna Keeling '19, who started a sustainable packaging company when she was still in high school. 
The Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE) research fellowship will allow her to conduct research at the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute for Chemical Defense.
More than any other experience at W&L, the Outing Club has taught Bowen Spottswood '18 about living life joyfully.
As she prepares to work for the Equality of Opportunity Project, Amanda Wahlers '18 is grateful for the education, opportunities and research experience she has had in Lexington.
 Jared Shely '18 will use the grant to continue his work teaching English to students in Latin America.
At this small-town university, Nora Devlin '19 has been exposed to viewpoints from all over the globe.
Kat Oakley '19 has spent a lot of time contemplating the idea of "place" - both in Lexington and across the world. 
Graham Novak '19 may only be a junior at W&L, but he has already lined up a job — at his own company. 
Broadcast journalism opportunities have been plentiful at W&L for Ford Carson '18, but the highlight of his college career has been founding a satirical publication, The Radish.
Jackson Roberts '19 had the opportunity to intern in Quito, Ecuador, exploring local customs, becoming part of the community, and learning the ins and outs of healthcare.
Working for the documentary filmmaking company Ark Media allowed Claire Hoffert '18 to exercise her research muscles and learn new skills.
Over 1,200 miles of biking and hiking trails led Ralston Hartness '18 from Spain to Ireland, discovering the meaning of pilgrimage along the way.
As a summer counselor with the nonprofit Camp Fire Alaska, Chase Wonderlic '18 got in touch with his inner child and his adventurous spirit.
Swimmer, computer coder, and Speaking Tradition advocate Will McMurtry '18 chose W&L over nine other schools, in large part because of its community.
Will Schirmer ’20 investigates the fluid dynamics of periodic water surges.
Elena Diller '17 and Caroline Todd '17 saw a need for more perspective in academics — so they got to work.
Jake Roberts' study abroad trip started with an earthquake, and ended with him finding a passion for public health.
Stephen Mitchell '17 credits students, alumni, and W&L academics for helping him to find the right career path.
Amirah S. Ndam Njoya ‘17 believes leadership, travelling, service, and scholarship are all vital parts of the W&L experience.
What can you do in four years at W&L? How about manage a radio show, start a service organization, found a club, or publish an EP? Austin Frank ’17 has done them all.
Alexander Rurka '17 knows the ups-and-downs (and loop-de-loops) of flying and competing in an international plane building competition
Brett Becker '18 and the W&L Pre-Dental Club teamed up with Rockbridge Area Health Center to distribute dental supplies to more than 700 local children.
Guen splits his time between hiking the mountains of Rockbridge and traveling the world.
LaPointe, who says his personal motto is "being genuine goes a long way," is a world traveler, professional debater, and Johnson Scholar.
Karishma Patel '18 loves finding the intersections of technology and business - while studying abroad in Madrid.
For the 2017 competition, NSF received over 13,000 applications and made 2,000 award offers.
Washington and Lee will host a reception celebrating Paqui Toscano's selection as a Rhodes Scholar on Friday, March 17, from 4:30 - 5:30 p.m. in the Commons Living Room.
Meet Shlomo Honig ‘18, whose day consists of analyzing rocks, protecting the environment, and ultimate frisbee
Meet Harry Lustig ‘17, a scholar-explorer who’s hiked everywhere from the Blue Ridge to Alaska.
Alex Meilech '18 has experienced tradition - from Lexington, Virginia to Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Meet Ryder Babik '19, a student who enjoys college as much as he enjoys helping others apply to college.
Meet Graham Novak '19, an aspiring - and already accomplished - entrepreneur
Meet Harrison Westgarth '17, a pre-med varsity athlete with a passion for teaching English for Speakers of Other Languages.
Meet Stephanie Chung '18, an anthropology major with a passion for women's health advocacy.
Meet some of Washington and Lee University's talented crop of Johnson Scholars.
Finding answers in the space where science and art intersect.
Meet Andy Cuthbert '18, a pre-med neuroscience major with a serious love of the outdoors.
Pasquale “Paqui” Toscano, a classics and English double major, is Washington and Lee’s 16th Rhodes Scholar.  The Rhodes Trust announced Sunday that Toscano, 22, of Kettering, Ohio, was one of 32 scholars chosen this year. The scholarships, valued at between $50,000 to $200,000, fully fund two to four years of study at the University of Oxford in England.
Above or below the water, Sasha Doss '13 studies and connects with fish and their environment.
Gray Rixey '18 spent part of his summer interning for a member of the British Parliament as part of the London Internship Program. He had no idea it would happen during one of the most tumultuous periods in British history.
Meet Jordan LaPointe '17, an East Asian Languages and Literatures major with a sense of adventure. A lifelong dream comes true in Japan.
ODK National Leader of the Year Paqui Toscano talks about his approach to leadership.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Johnson Scholarship archive.