Washington and Lee was ranked third among the baccalaureate institutions recognized by the Fulbright Program.
Yurechko ’24 is the university’s first Marshall Scholar.
The Beinecke Scholarship Program provides funds for post-graduate study to students of unusual promise.
Ellie Penner ’23, a Washington and Lee University senior, has received a Critical Language Scholarship (CLS) to study Bangla this summer in Kolkata, West Bengal, India.
Oluwakuyide will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at the University of Washington this summer.
The scholarship provides young scholars with an immersive experience in Asia through which they can learn to "be comfortable being uncomfortable." 
Washington and Lee was ranked second among the baccalaureate institutions recognized by the Fulbright Program.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate student recipients.
Lozinskaya, a 2022 graduate, will receive a master’s degree in global affairs from Tsinghua University in China.
Phillips '23 is the university’s 18th Rhodes Scholar.
Seven students from W&L received Gilman scholarships for academic year 2020-2021.
Another record-setting year for nationally competitive fellowships at W&L can be attributed to forward-thinking educators, hard-working students and an encouraging fellowships director.
After his USTA program orientation in September, Tinsley will teach in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
Kingwill has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Uzbekistan. He will depart in September 2022 for his 10-month program. 
After her USTA program orientation in September, Joey Dickinson will be teaching in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
Mosher has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Kazakhstan. He will also spend this summer receiving intensive Russian language training in Tbilisi, Georgia.
Bernard has been selected as a 2022 Udall Scholar in the environmental category.
Elizabeth Grist has been awarded a Fulbright research grant to Melbourne, Australia, to study the stigma and barriers associated with receiving medication for opioid use disorder.
Three members of the Class of 2022 will spend seven months in the Teaching Assistant Program in France (TAPIF) teaching English to public school.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Johnston was recently awarded a fellowship to the Center for Arabic Study Abroad at the American University in Cairo.
Carley will serve as an English language teaching assistant in a school in the former Soviet republic.
Stankewich received a David L. Boren Scholarship from the National Security Education Program to study abroad in Tanzania in fall 2022.
Galvez has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to France, where he will teach English to secondary school students and serve as a cultural ambassador for the United States.
Fugate will use her graduate research fellowship from the National Science Foundation to study the migration patterns of bison in Yellowstone National Park. 
After her USTA program orientation in September, Shugart will team teach in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
Addison has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Uruguay, where she will teach English to primary or secondary school students and serve as a cultural ambassador for the United States.
The English Teaching Assistantship provides Cones a stipend to teach English to students in Bulgaria and lead cultural exchange activities.
Tripathi will teach English to students in Colombia for 10 months.
Lee has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Costa Rica starting in early 2023.
Maggie Hardin '22 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany.
Keeley will live in a German community for one academic year to teach English to students in a local school.
The Beinecke Scholarship Program provides funds for post-graduate study to students of unusual promise.
Each scholar is awarded $7,500 to support undergraduate research in their junior or senior year.
Riter will spend the next academic year volunteering with a community organization, working as an English teaching assistant and taking courses at the University of Graz.
McMaster has been awarded a Fulbright research grant to Italy to complete a hybrid art history and computer science project.
Six undergraduate students received Critical Language Scholarships, which will provide them the opportunity to study language intensively during summer 2022.
Larsen will spend the next academic year studying at the Budapest Semesters in Mathematics and participating in a research group at the Alfréd Rényi Institute of Mathematics.
Moye-Green will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton.
Six students and three alumni from W&L received Fulbright awards for academic year 2021-2022
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
A record-setting year for nationally competitive fellowship awards at Washington and Lee University can be attributed to forward-thinking educators, hard-working students and a persistent, encouraging fellowships director. 
   Five students from W&L received Fulbright awards for academic year 2020-2021.
Despite COVID-19, Jared Nickodem '20 was able to make it to Austria, where he is teaching English to students as part of the U.S. Teaching Assistant Program.
Bo Garfinkel '21 talks about the experiences she's been afforded recently as a recipient of a Public Policy and International Affairs fellowship and a Gilman Scholarship.
Eight students and three faculty received Fulbright awards for 2019-2020.
Gabriele, a 2019 graduate, is the university’s 17th Rhodes Scholar.
The fellowship lasts a full academic year and allows students to conduct formal research and pursue advocacy efforts on a specific topic.
Scholars will spend four weeks of their summer exploring the world of modern scientific research at some of the nation’s leading laboratories and universities. 
 Each scholar is awarded $7,500 to support undergraduate research in their junior or senior year.
 The scholarship was created to encourage more American students to study in the Middle East. 
Hester will participate in an intensive eight-week Chinese language course at Shaanxi Normal University.
The scholarship will cover his remaining undergraduate tuition, a stipend, summer internships and then a job upon graduation.
 Reese is an English major and studio art minor. 
Syed is a biology major and a Middle East and South Asia studies minor.
Christopher McCrackin ’20 has won a $34,000 Beinecke Scholarship to help fund his graduate studies. 
Sophie Wilks ’21 has won a $4,300 Nemours Summer Undergraduate Research Scholarship for her project. 
Agrippina has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain.
Her scholarship will fund a nine- to 12-month study of small-scale cultural heritage looting operations in the Golden Triangle of India.
Abiza will receive a master’s degree in global affairs from Tsinghua University in China.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Nationally Competitive Fellowships archive.