Washington and Lee’s Center for International Education awarded deBuchananne funding to study Arabic at the University of Jordan this summer. 
“Myth, Magic, and Madness” will feature a dynamic lineup of creative workshops, dramatic readings and staged productions March 21-22.
Liz Mira Santi ’24 came to W&L as a Gunn Scholar in 2023, and her time on campus has expanded her worldview and reinforced her ambitions.
Mathen’s talk “Dilemmas of Democracy” will be held Nov. 13.
Kaplan’s talk “Between Empire and Anarchy from the Mediterranean to China” will be held Nov. 8.
Washington and Lee students explored the world this summer thanks to grant funding opportunities through the Center for International Education.
W&L students in this Spring Term’s “Swedish Theater” course were immersed in culture during their three weeks in Stockholm, Sweden.
Washington and Lee’s Class of 2023 includes nine recipients of the Certificate of International Immersion awarded by W&L’s Center for International Education.
Washington and Lee's Center for International Education awarded two students funding to study Arabic at the University of Jordan this summer.
Lozinskaya, a 2022 graduate, will receive a master’s degree in global affairs from Tsinghua University in China.
Kim Stanley Robinson, an award-winning author, will give a public lecture on Nov. 10 at 6:15 p.m. in the University Chapel.
Ahmad Ohmid Arman ’23 arrived on campus as a Gunn Scholar in 2021 and is making the most of his long-awaited W&L experience.
Professor Ayse Zarakol will give a public lecture on Nov. 14 at 5:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.
Anika Maan spent her summer working for the United Nations: Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) in Suva, Fiji. 
Maan received support for her summer placement with the UN Office of Drugs and Crime in Fiji.
Lily Mott '23 is interning this summer at News Over Audio in Dublin, Ireland, where she is finding fulfillment at the intersection of politics and journalism.
Students in Elliott King’s Spring Term class, “Modern Art in Barcelona,” are being steeped in Spanish art, history and architecture during an unforgettable educational trip to Barcelona and Madrid.
Members of the Washington and Lee University community are responding to last month’s incursion by offering educational opportunities and raising funds for relief efforts.
Nick Mosher '22 always finds support at W&L, whether he's writing a thesis on Russian politics, starting an online human rights newspaper or helping the football team win ODACs.
Allie Stankewich '23 spent summer 2021 learning about public health in Uganda and green roofs in New York City.
A record-setting year for nationally competitive fellowship awards at Washington and Lee University can be attributed to forward-thinking educators, hard-working students and a persistent, encouraging fellowships director. 
The initiative matches participating W&L students with local host families interested in connecting.
James Ricks ’21 plans to work this summer with the Oda Foundation in Nepal.
Debris from the aftermath of the Hiroshima bombing found its way to W&L’s Special Collections, where it heightened one class’s understanding of a powerful Japanese novel.  
Cindy Irby, assistant director of international education and study abroad advisor at W&L, says her experience as a member of Up with People — which included participation in a Super Bowl halftime show — helps to inspire her as she makes study abroad opportunities possible for W&L students.
Valerie Hudson, George H.W. Bush Chair and professor of international affairs at Texas A&M University, will deliver a virtual lecture on Feb. 15 at 5 p.m. as part of W&L’s Mudd Center for Ethics series.
Despite COVID-19, Jared Nickodem '20 was able to make it to Austria, where he is teaching English to students as part of the U.S. Teaching Assistant Program.
When her Critical Language Scholarship to China went virtual because of COVID, Kisker '21 got a six-week sampler of the country and its language through her computer screen.
Assistant Professor Erin Taylor and Dr. Ralph Caldroney’s public discussion, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Ethical Issues in the Context of Covid-19."
At the start of the academic year, 17 first-year international students began their W&L experience in Scotland. Today, they are taking courses in Lexington as a unique group of friends.
Bo Garfinkel '21 talks about the experiences she's been afforded recently as a recipient of a Public Policy and International Affairs fellowship and a Gilman Scholarship.
COVID-19 may have forced events to go virtual this Fall Term, but that means some guest speaker talks and art exhibits can still be enjoyed online.
Elizabeth Kolbert, a staff writer for The New Yorker, will give a virtual lecture on Oct. 29 at 5 p.m. 
Valeria Espinal '23L and Blake Kang '23L made it to Lexington despite many hurdles.
“Global Ethics in the 21st Century: Opportunities and Challenges,” a collaboration between the Mudd Center for Ethics and the Center for International Education, kicks off Sept. 24 with a keynote address by former U.S. ambassador and Sewanee University President Reuben E. Brigety.
Tolu Olubunmi, a 2002 graduate of Washington and Lee, will return to her alma mater as the guest speaker for Washington and Lee’s first International Day of Peace event. 
As Executive Committee president for the 2020-21 school year, Chase Calhoun '21 hopes to protect the Honor System and make a positive impact in areas of racial inequality and systemic racism.
Franks, a professor of law at the University of Miami School of Law, will discuss the topic of her 2019 book, “The Cult of the Constitution: Our Deadly Devotion to Guns and Free Speech.”
Studying philosophy and Arabic, traveling to Morocco and Beirut, and working with Professor Anthony Edwards to translate a Beiruti book have helped Tanner Hall '21 understand and appreciate other cultures.
Cage Tevis ’21, Bo Garfinkel ’21, Jeremiah Kohl ’22, Collin Frazey ’23 and Tanajia Moye-Green ’23 will study abroad.
The Virginia Governor's World Language Academies this year celebrated the 10th year at W&L and adapted to virtual programming in light of the global pandemic.
Immigrations and Customs Enforcement guidelines announced in July would have required international students to leave the U.S. if they were forced by COVID-19 to take only online courses.
Julia Hernandez took a Spring Term class in Ghana and studied abroad in France and Morocco, proving that W&L is a gateway to opportunities all over the globe.
At W&L, Eric Herrera did field work in Ghana, created a biotech startup, and discovered the original location of the Alamo.
At W&L, Katherine Ingram '20 found a research interest—and a future profession—where environmental studies meets economics.
Rivers has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Mexico starting January 2021.
Garfinkel will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton
Recipients of the John M. Gunn International Scholarship met with its namesake in February and shared how the program has made a difference in their lives.
Rush’s article is entitled “Saving the Voting Rights Act: Virginia as a case study for reform.”
 In 2021, students will have the opportunity to study in Ghana for both Winter and Spring Terms.
Four Washington and Lee University students are spending time this summer in Beirut, where they are immersed in Arabic language and Lebanese culture.
As a candidate on the Fulbright Specialist Roster, Rush is now eligible to be matched with projects designed by host institutions in over 150 countries globally.
Thanks to an exchange program funded by the Japanese government, a group of W&L students spent Washington Break immersed in the culture of Japan—and welcomed Kanazawa University students to W&L one month later.
Washington Break at W&L is about exploration, whether that discovery involves Texas mountaintops, Japanese culture or career opportunities in New York.
W&L is included on the list of U.S. colleges and universities that produced the most 2018-2019 Fulbright U.S. Students.
W&L's Chanoyu Tea Society will host their annual Martin Luther King, Jr. tea ceremony on Jan. 21
 Zainab Abiza ’19 studied at Princeton and spent time in Rabat, Morocco, with a Davis Projects for Peace grant. This semester, she's working to expand her Davis project.
In response to student demand, Washington and Lee University has added three new interdisciplinary minors to enrich its curriculum.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Midha Ahmad '21 and Sawera Khan '21 to spend the summer in Pakistan, where they compared alternative medicine to traditional treatment.
Erin An '19 has spent time this summer researching immunotherapy treatments for pediatric cancer at the University of Virginia.
Dr. Ling-ting Chiu, a Fulbright Scholar and assistant professor of history at Soochow University in Taiwan, spent the summer at Washington and Lee studying the works of former W&L professor and artist Professor I-Hsiung Ju.
Danielle Spickard '19 is taking full advantage of what the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program has to offer.
Washington and Lee students utilize their summers through research, volunteer work and internship opportunities, both on campus and across the globe.
Elizabeth McDonald heads to Japan, Emily Austin to Indonesia and Riley Ries to Kyrgyzstan.
Rush's piece was published in The Virginian-Pilot
ODK inducted four honorary and seven student initiates
Daniel Rhoades '19 joined a group that traveled to Monterrey, Mexico over Washington Break to continue a STEM program for elementary school students.
She will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton followed by a service project in Morocco.
Her talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “An Untold Story of Black Intellectuals and Egyptology.”
The weekend’s full schedule is available online. The colloquium is sponsored by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation.
 The title of their talk is “How We'll End Gerrymandering and Fairly Represent All Women and Men?" 
The program helps American students secure three-month long business internships in Germany.
There will be three seatings on Mar. 3 at 1 p.m., 1:30 p.m. and 2 p.m. and tickets are free.
Whether doing research on campus or traveling across the world for internships and projects, W&L students made the most of summer 2017. In the new year, we invite you to take a look back at everything they accomplished.
W&L's Chanoyu Tea Society will host their second annual Martin Luther King, Jr. tea ceremony on Jan. 15
Beginning with the 2018 Spring Term, Washington and Lee will provide institutional grants to meet the full cost of Spring Term domestic and international travel programs for students with financial need.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Xiaoxia Yin '20 and Sesha Carrier '20 to study traditional folk singing in China.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed engineering students Alfred Rwagaju '18 and Kennedy Gibson-Wynn '18 to spend the summer studying hydroelectric power in Rwanda.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Yoko Koyama '19 and Maren Lundgren '18 to open a store in Cameroon that will fund transportation for local children to go to middle school in a neighboring town.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation sent Trang Duong '20 and Hannah Denham '20 to Vietnam, where they had enlightening interviews with both men and women about marriage in modern Vietnamese society.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Tiffany Ko '20 and Jiwon Kim '20 to study religion in South Korea during summer 2017.
Translating Aimé Césaire: A conversation with A. James Arnold and Clayton Eshleman will be held Sept. 19 at 5 p.m. in the CGL.
Sierra Noland and Tara Cooper received Critical Language Scholarships sponsored by the U.S. Department of State.
The Ruscio Center for Global Learning has brought to life the vision of the many donors and advocates who wanted to see global learning elevated at W&L.
Several student teams are chosen each year to pursue summer research outside the United States in locations such as Hanoi, Vietnam.
Ben Fleenor ’19, Mohini Tangri ’19 and Kenta Sayama ’19 talk about the opportunities that await them as they look forward to a year at Oxford.
W&L junior Angel Vela de la Garza Evia has won a $10,000 Davis Projects for Peace grant.
American students traveled abroad with international students for summer projects they created together. .
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Sonia Brozak '17 Travels to Florence to Study Art History.
Kiki Martire is an English major with a minor in women's and gender studies from Baltimore, Md. A member of the Class of 2015, she traveled abroad to the South Pacific during her junior year.
Fort Dauphin, Madagascar.
Myrna Barrera-Torres '15 in Vina del Mar, Chile, and Rome, Italy.
"It allowed me to branch outside my comfort zone and really see the world from a different angle."
Eric Schwen '15 in  Paris, Madrid and London.
University College, London.
"Faculty and staff have supported me in my pursuit of fostering a greater global perspective to bring back to Lexington."
.
"Good and bad things will happen when you take risks and leave what's comfortable, but I promise it's worth it."
.
"W&L has allowed me to satisfy my need to wander."
"Being abroad for so long really changed my perspective on many aspects of W&L, and made me appreciate it so much more."
Computer Science major Rajwol Joshi discusses his experiences at W&L.
John Gunn Scholar discusses her experience at Washington and Lee.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Franklin Wolfe '16 Travels to Europe to Gather Data for 3D Geologic Models.
Recipients of W&L's Certificate of International Immersion reflect on their experiences abroad.
Washington and Lee's Outing Club travels to Nepal for eight-day Khumbu trek.
Washington and Lee Dedicates the Center for Global Learning.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Sara Jones '18 Travels to India to Study Maternal and Child Health.
Kate LeMasters is a politics and economics major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Abilene, Texas. She studied global health and development policy in Geneva, Switzerland and Rabat, Morocco, with SIT Study Abroad.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete International Education archive.