W&L’s Summer Research Scholars program gives students hands-on experience in collaborative research with faculty mentors.
Washington and Lee students gain new perspectives after internships through the Shepherd Program.
Washington and Lee students explored the world this summer thanks to grant funding opportunities through the Center for International Education.
This summer, Washington and Lee students experienced life in London as part of an immersive program offered through the Williams School.
Washington and Lee’s Class of 2023 includes nine recipients of the Certificate of International Immersion awarded by W&L’s Center for International Education.
Washington and Lee's Center for International Education awarded two students funding to study Arabic at the University of Jordan this summer.
W&L’s distinctive summer programming helped Burks-Parra develop her personal and professional interests.
Washington and Lee students blazed their own trails this summer to pursue their passions.
Despite challenges presented by the Covid-19 pandemic, many students were able to travel this summer for valuable professional experience in other countries.
Student participants stay in Lexington to develop research techniques and obtain valuable work experience.
SHECP internships provide work experiences that are impactful for both the students and the communities they serve.
Bonner Kirkland '23 conducted biomedical research this summer in the Children’s National Hospital’s Department of Genetic Medicine.
Aishwarya Vemagiri '25 hopes her summer research experience on diet-induced obesity will lead to a career in the medical field.
Collin Frazey ’23 spent his summer working for Meta's intellectual property team in the heart of Silicon Valley.
Brendan Smith ’24 worked in the British House of Commons as a parliamentary research intern in London.
Kristina Ayers '25 is interning at a medical clinic for the homeless in Washington, D.C. through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty.
Margaret Witkofsky '24 is researching grants for the city of Lexington, Virginia through her internship with the Office of Community-Based Learning.
Lucy Worthy ’24 is conducting clinical research and shadowing a physician at the Mayo Clinic.
Marcus Payne '25 is spending his summer doing geology research with Professor of Earth and Environmental Geoscience Jeffrey Rahl.
Kayla Monaghan ’24 is collaborating on a Summer Research Scholars (SRS) project to enhance resources available through Leyburn Library.
Diwesh Kumar ’24 is developing investment banking expertise at his summer internship at Boxwood Partners in Richmond, Virginia. 
Lily Mott '23 is interning this summer at News Over Audio in Dublin, Ireland, where she is finding fulfillment at the intersection of politics and journalism.
Sarah Burd ’24 is spending her summer working for a medical technology company in Vienna, Austria, that specializes in prosthetic limbs.
Eric Bazile '25 is interning with the Austin Greater Chamber of Commerce through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty (SHECP).
Bridget Osas ’25 is researching behavioral impacts on the development of metabolic syndromes like obesity.
Caroline Wise '23 is spending her second summer working as an alpine guide in Alaska.
Johansen plans to head to Eastern Europe after graduation to serve Ukrainian refugees.
Moye-Green will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Lauren Hoaglund '22 has parlayed her passion for medieval and Renaissance history, literature, classics and theater into a busy but rewarding four years at W&L.
Katana Evans '22 used summer enhancement funds to intern with Rep. Julia Brownley's office and Recovery Organization Resources.
Paige Anderson '22 is spending the summer recording an album of classical violin music in memory of her grandmother.
In an epic summer adventure, three rising W&L sophomores built their own boat and sailed it down the Red and Mississippi rivers from Shreveport, Louisiana, to New Orleans.
Campbell has won a Gilman Scholarship to do an internship in Barcelona, Spain.
Stern will travel to South Korea this summer to study in Seoul, South Korea.
Johnston has won a Gilman Scholarship to study abroad with Middlebury Abroad at Mohammed V University in Rabat, Morocco.
Hatfield will travel to Denmark for the fall semester and take multiple psychology classes.
Bo Garfinkel '21 talks about the experiences she's been afforded recently as a recipient of a Public Policy and International Affairs fellowship and a Gilman Scholarship.
Professor Stephanie Sandberg and Nolan Zunk ’22 co-directed “Intimate Violence,” which will be screened at Hull’s Drive-in to raise money for Project Horizon.
Forty incoming first-year students participated in this year’s virtual Advanced Immersion and Mentoring (AIM) Scholars Summer Program, giving them an auspicious start to their W&L careers and a chance to help their peers this fall.
Studying philosophy and Arabic, traveling to Morocco and Beirut, and working with Professor Anthony Edwards to translate a Beiruti book have helped Tanner Hall '21 understand and appreciate other cultures.
When her summer research trip to Nepal was canceled because of COVID-19, Danika Brockman went to work for the Rockbridge Area Relief Association, where she helps with the food pantry.
Nick Watson '22 is spending the summer working on housing issues as part of his Shepherd internship with the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity in Vermont.
George Barker '20 used both of his majors⁠, computer science and chemistry, to help build a website that makes a challenging subject more approachable for students.
This summer, Ginny Johnson '20 served as a peer mentor to nine rising sophomores as part of the Keck Geology Consortium trip to Belize, where Professor Lisa Greer continued her research project into the staghorn coral population.
Maya Lora has always wanted to be a storyteller for public good. This summer, she did just that as a reporting intern for her hometown paper, the Miami Herald.
The Cape Town Program, a partnership between the Williams School and the Shepherd Program, provides students with an interdisciplinary experience they'll never forget.
As the only intern for the Arena Football League's communications coordinator, journalism major Jimmie Johnson '20 has been able to pitch and create his own multimedia content.
For students like Lourdes Arana '21, the London Internship Program combines course work, internships and alumni support to create an unforgettable educational experience.
For Darcy Olmstead '21 and Lindsey Hewitt '21, analyzing art in the Netherlands and the U.S. with Professor Erich Uffelman has been an educational 'dream come true.'
Working with ICU patients at Vanderbilt University Medical Center through the Allen Grant has reaffirmed neuroscience major Laney Smith's desire to become a surgeon.
Four Washington and Lee University students are spending time this summer in Beirut, where they are immersed in Arabic language and Lebanese culture.
Through coursework and connections, Hannah Archer '20 helped to create a school food service program to ensure that local children have enough to eat during the summer. 
Baumeyer is working this summer as a SHECP intern in Charleston, West Virginia.
James Ricks '21 is spending the summer working for The Oda Foundation in Nepal, where he is researching tobacco use and working with children to create a mural that represents health in their town.
At W&L, a combination of incredible courses, extracurricular opportunities and a warm community made for an experience Will Shannon '19 calls "uniquely mine."
MaKayla Lorick '19 is collecting oral histories from African-American alumni, faculty and staff as part of a project that aims to include those missing perspectives in Washington and Lee University's history of desegregation and integration.
Hannah Denham '20 has combined business journalism with women and gender studies at W&L to create a liberal arts education that suits her interests and ambition.
 Zainab Abiza ’19 studied at Princeton and spent time in Rabat, Morocco, with a Davis Projects for Peace grant. This semester, she's working to expand her Davis project.
Whether he's working with the Williams Investment Society or playing jazz guitar, Joe Wen '19 makes the most of his W&L experience.
Dannick Kenon '19, who plans to attend law school and devote his career to positive social change, has co-founded a new student publication at W&L called The Vigil.
After spending the summer teaching and exploring in Costa Rica, Taylor Casey '20 can't wait to return.
Washington Term, study abroad opportunities and internships—including one with the Philadelphia Eagles—have helped to shape Jason Renner's plans for the future.
Megan Engeland '19 spent her summer in a research laboratory in the psychology department at the University of Sydney in Australia.
Whether she's leading the Student Association for Black Unity, acting in a play or volunteering in the community as a Bonner Scholar, Sasha Edwards '20 is ever mindful that education can happen anywhere.
Caroline Caruso '21 loved Costa Rica so much that she wants to open a medical practice there after graduate school. 
Daniel Rhoades '19 spent the summer immersed in the language and culture of Costa Rica.
Language and culture courses at W&L prepared Marissa Miller '21 for a fun, educational trip to Nicoya, where she met the vice president of Costa Rica (left, center).
Anne Rodgers '20 completed a 2018 summer internship with Asylee Women Enterprise (AWE) through the Shepherd Program. These are her reflections.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Midha Ahmad '21 and Sawera Khan '21 to spend the summer in Pakistan, where they compared alternative medicine to traditional treatment.
Erin An '19 has spent time this summer researching immunotherapy treatments for pediatric cancer at the University of Virginia.
Catherine Savoca ’19 explored the real estate development industry this summer as a sales and marketing intern in Lisbon, Portugal.
The Critical Language Scholarship Program has allowed Riley Ries '19 to strengthen his Russian and learn more about politics and culture in Kyrgyzstan.
While digging at the Athenian Agora Excavation in Greece this summer, Allison Schuster '19 indulged her passion for archaeology and classics.
Yoko Koyama '19 put her W&L learning to work this summer at National Instruments Japan.
Jackson Ellis '19 is working with a German consulting agency to help international student-athletes navigate the college application process.
This summer, Davis Straske '19 is researching children's play in psychology professor Megan Fulcher's Gender Development Lab. 
Students in the Cape Town Summer Internship Program gain professional experience and a better understanding of South Africa’s culture.
Xinxian Wang '21 was able to marry two interests in an internship with The Visual Arts Center in Richmond.
During a four-week internship with Enact Sustainable Strategies in Stockholm, Julia Carullo '20 has been inspired by Sweden's dedication to sustainability in business practices.
Elizabeth McDonald heads to Japan, Emily Austin to Indonesia and Riley Ries to Kyrgyzstan.
As she prepares to work for the Equality of Opportunity Project, Amanda Wahlers '18 is grateful for the education, opportunities and research experience she has had in Lexington.
 Jared Shely '18 will use the grant to continue his work teaching English to students in Latin America.
Hannah Falchuk '18 hopes to improve her cultural understanding and language proficiency in the country.
Mugo will attend the Public Policy and International Affairs Junior Summer Institute at the Heinz College at Carnegie Mellon.
Whether doing research on campus or traveling across the world for internships and projects, W&L students made the most of summer 2017. In the new year, we invite you to take a look back at everything they accomplished.
Monica Musgrave '18 is already double-majoring, but that didn't stop her from spending six-weeks in England studying two completely different subjects.
Skyler T. Zunk ’19 was an intern at the White House's Office of Political Affairs.
The best place to research your thesis? Some would say the library, but for Jacqueline Moruzzi '18 that place is the Cambridge University's Medieval Studies Summer Program.
Jackson Roberts '19 had the opportunity to intern in Quito, Ecuador, exploring local customs, becoming part of the community, and learning the ins and outs of healthcare.
Kathryn E. Young '19 got a Reynolds Business Scholarship that allowed her to intern at her hometown newspaper, the Richmond Times-Dispatch.
As a general assignment intern at The Roanoke Times, Rachel Hicks '19 learned how to be firm with difficult sources.
Marta Regn ’19 used her internship to throughly explore all aspects of a sustainable, ethical jewelry startup.
A three-month internship with New York-based artist Taryn Simon presented Sara Dotterer '18 with myriad possibilities for her future career.
Katrina Lewis' business reporting internship took her to the Boston Business Journal, where she covered real estate news and development.
Vicky Kazmierczak '18 spent the summer in Memphis, learning the ins and outs of non-profit work — and how to hope.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Xiaoxia Yin '20 and Sesha Carrier '20 to study traditional folk singing in China.
Caroline Blackmon interned this summer with The Dunwoody Crier in Georgia.
Over 1,200 miles of biking and hiking trails led Ralston Hartness '18 from Spain to Ireland, discovering the meaning of pilgrimage along the way.
Alex Meilech '18 spent the summer in Santiago, Chile, learning the language, exploring the culture, and caring for the people of the country.
Julia Kaczmar '19 spent a summer in New York City, learning the logistics of the latest fashions.
Professor George Bent and his team of students are working on a digital recreation of Florence that Bent describes as the “project of his career.”
Abigail Summerville '19, a business journalism major, interned on the CNBC.com breaking news desk.
Sierra Noland studied Hindi in Jaipur, India while Tara Cooper studied Japanese in Hikone, Japan.
Mandy Witherspoon ’18 combined her love of art with her expertise in business at the Baltimore Museum of Art.
Danielle Hughson's honors thesis will be focused on male editorial control and how it affects female writers, within a familial and patriarchal context.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed engineering students Alfred Rwagaju '18 and Kennedy Gibson-Wynn '18 to spend the summer studying hydroelectric power in Rwanda.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Yoko Koyama '19 and Maren Lundgren '18 to open a store in Cameroon that will fund transportation for local children to go to middle school in a neighboring town.
Over the summer, students worked with Professor Robert Humston to examine the potential effects of smallmouth bass on native brook trout populations in the Virginia watershed.
As a summer counselor with the nonprofit Camp Fire Alaska, Chase Wonderlic '18 got in touch with his inner child and his adventurous spirit.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation sent Trang Duong '20 and Hannah Denham '20 to Vietnam, where they had enlightening interviews with both men and women about marriage in modern Vietnamese society.
Olivia Kubli '18's summer volunteer work included photographing lions, giraffes and elephants in Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe.
With a Davis Projects for Peace grant, Angel Vela de la Garza Evia ’18 created an educational summer program for children in his hometown of Monterrey, Mexico. [With time-lapse VIDEO]
Anna Milewski '18 has spent time in fields, labs, carpenter shops and seminar rooms - and it was all part of one internship at the home of George Washington.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Tiffany Ko '20 and Jiwon Kim '20 to study religion in South Korea during summer 2017.
Sutton Travis '19 gained a wide breadth of journalism experience as a summer intern at Texas Monthly magazine.
Matt Lubas '18 spent the summer in Zacapa, Guatamala, working at a prosthetic clinic for the Range of Motion Project.
Hannah Palmatary '18 spent the summer discovering the ancient ruins of Greece, as well as her own talent and passion for creative writing.
Yavuz Durmaz ’20 worked with Professor Kyle Friend to probe mRNA instability.
Lorena Hernandez Barcena '19 had an eye-opening summer internship with Harlem Children’s Zone, an education nonprofit in New York.
Elora Fucigna '19 completed an internship in social media and marketing for Ground Floor Farm, an urban farm in her hometown of Stuart, Florida.
Shadowing doctors in Peru allowed Bryan D'Ostroph '19 to practice his Spanish and firm up future career plans in health care.
Through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty, Tyra Barrett '18 interned at the Camden Coalition of Healthcare Providers in New Jersey.
Soon Ho Kwon '17 and Claire Meyers '18 spent the summer looking at how Corporate Social Responsibility plays a role in the bottom line.
Mary Catherine Greenleaf '19 collected and archived artifacts revolving around the Prohibition-era murder of Franklin Crosby Bearse.
Elly Cosgrove '19 stayed busy this summer with internships at the Greater Wilmington Business Journal and WECT (Channel 6).
Through the U.Va. Field School for Public Health Research, Julie Sklar '18 was able to work with a medical anthropologist and epidemiologist in South Africa this summer.
2L Alexis Narducci used on-campus interviews and alumni connections to build a full summer of legal employment experiences.
Matt Kaminer '18 stepped outside his comfort zone to work on some big stories during an internship with the Charlotte Observer.
Daisy Norwood-Kelly '18 worked in marketing research for Paramount Pictures over the summer.
After spending Spring Term in Ethiopia, Jack Kaelin '19 is in Austin, Texas, helping refugees find a place to call home. 
Julia Poppenberg '19 spent the summer as a translator in Guatemala, helping doctors and patients alike and learning to "talk strong."
Ellen Kanzinger's summer internship allowed her to work on films for the nonprofit GroundTruth Project in Boston, Massachusetts.
Anukriti Shrestha '19 has found an intersection of mathematics, computer science and research — all in the heart of Lexington.
Jack Miller '19 has spent his summer in the bush of South Africa, learning about wildlife and conservation - and having a few close calls in the field.
This summer, Allison Jue '20 dove into the books to learn more about the relationship between Queen Elizabeth I and the second Earl of Essex.
Professor Chris Dobbins and Ben Whedon ’18 are reviving a forgotten musical score for its 21st-century premiere by the W&L Orchestra.
Will Schirmer ’20 investigates the fluid dynamics of periodic water surges.
Chandler Wickers '18 has spent her summer as a researcher in Special Collections, where she has been exposed to fascinating materials and learned how professors and students can take greater advantage of the collection.
Ben Schaeffer '18 is working with German professor Paul Youngman on a project involving references to the railway in German literature.
Joelle Simeu '20 is working this summer on "The Politics and Poetics of Space in the Works of Martin Luther King Jr. and Leopold Senghor," a project with Professor Mohamed Kamara.
Annie Jeckovich ’18 is studying the effects of obesity on reproduction in W&L's Fat Rat lab.
Several student teams are chosen each year to pursue summer research outside the United States in locations such as Hanoi, Vietnam.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Summer Opportunity archive.