Nabors Service League continues to honor the late Jonathan Nabors ’02 by bringing students together to help the greater Rockbridge area.
This year’s event raised more than $10,000 to support the Campus Kitchen’s hunger-fighting project.
All proceeds from the Feb. 4 event will support the Campus Kitchen at W&L’s Backpack Program.
Campus Kitchen’s annual event series continues with its Winter Term 2024 lineup, examining the ways in which food systems interact with issues of social justice.
Edelman’s talk will be held on Jan. 17 and is sponsored by the Blue Ridge Mile Clinic.
The professor of cultural anthropology will serve a dual role leading Community-Based Learning and the SHECP Consortium.
The community is encouraged to participate and donate to support Campus Kitchen’s programming, which kicks off Nov. 5.
Campus Kitchen’s annual event series examines the ways in which food systems interact with issues of social justice.
Washington and Lee students gain new perspectives after internships through the Shepherd Program.
The donation will support the Campus Kitchen Backpack Program.
Katie Yurechko ’24 presented on how algorithm awareness impacts algospeak use on TikTok.
The weekend’s seminar will feature Amor Towles discussing his latest book, “The Lincoln Highway.”
Tetiana Kozachanska ’26 is taking full advantage of her first year at Washington and Lee.
This year’s event raised $9,700 to support the Campus Kitchen at W&L’s Backpack Program.
Students in Professor Marisa Charley’s POV102 course helped local elementary school children tell stories this fall through photovoice research.
Campus Kitchen’s annual event series continues with its Winter Term 2023 lineup, examining the many ways in which the food system interacts with social justice issues.
Sanchez plans to pursue graduate study in public policy after graduation.
Katie Shester is an associate professor of economics and a core faculty member for the Shepherd Program for the Interdisciplinary Study of Poverty and Human Capability, as well as Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies.
Ryan Brink serves as Campus Kitchen coordinator.
Alumni and friends of the Bonner Program are invited to a reception in Mattingly House during Young Alumni Weekend.
Campus Kitchen’s annual event series examines the many ways in which the food system interacts with issues of justice.
SHECP internships provide work experiences that are impactful for both the students and the communities they serve.
Kiera Stankewich ’25 tackled food justice in Louisville, Kentucky this summer through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty.
Kristina Ayers '25 is interning at a medical clinic for the homeless in Washington, D.C. through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty.
The donation will support the Campus Kitchen Backpack Program.
Eric Bazile '25 is interning with the Austin Greater Chamber of Commerce through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty (SHECP).
Bri Mondesir ’22 has found her purpose through volunteer work in the Rockbridge area community as a scholar in the Bonner Program at W&L.
After receiving a great deal of support from upperclassmen at Washington and Lee University, Hannah Puckett ’23 pays it forward by dedicating her time to mentoring and counseling first-year students.
Between the classroom and her community volunteer work, Katherine Ho '23 has built a W&L experience that is already paying off in the career world.
The clinic is a Lexington-based program run by W&L students that partners with Virginia's Drive to Work initiative to help low-income or previously incarcerated individuals gain or restore their driving privileges.
This year’s Souper Bowl raised $5,627 to support the Campus Kitchen at W&L’s Backpack Program.
All proceeds from the Jan. 30 event will support Campus Kitchen at W&L’s Backpack Program.
The annual Turkeypalooza event at Washington and Lee University's Campus Kitchen involves hours of volunteer work to help make a happy Thanksgiving for members of the local community. 
This fall, the Campus Kitchen is introducing a new multi-year event series titled "Just Food: Land Access, Redlining, and Food Sovereignty."
The W&L campus is buzzing with life again as students arrive for athletic practice, Pre-Orientation trips and other adventures to usher in Fall Term.
A record-setting year for nationally competitive fellowship awards at Washington and Lee University can be attributed to forward-thinking educators, hard-working students and a persistent, encouraging fellowships director. 
Everything has fallen into place at W&L for Alankrit Shatadal '21, who complemented her academic experience with research, peer counseling and membership in University Singers. 
Grace Anne Holladay '21 has a conversation with Dr. Kelli Jarrell ’12, who was recently named the national emergency fellow of the year
James Ricks ’21 has received a Fulbright creative grant to Nepal to photograph patients and healthcare providers at a one-of-a-kind health clinic.
Lorena Terroba Urruchua '21 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship (ETA) to Spain.
Two new first-year cohorts, #Hungerfighters and Good Nabors, educate first-year students about the Shepherd Program, introduce them to service learning, help them make friends and set them up for further involvement in the program.
Bo Garfinkel '21 talks about the experiences she's been afforded recently as a recipient of a Public Policy and International Affairs fellowship and a Gilman Scholarship.
The pandemic has presented challenges to working and learning within the community, but virtual and distanced projects have allowed those partnerships to continue to bear fruit this year. 
At W&L, Lorena Terroba Urruchua ’21 found her purpose — helping people with disabilities — at the intersection of psychology, Romance languages and poverty studies. 
After the pandemic canceled his original internship, Blake Sanchez '23 went to work for the Virginia Department of Health and the Campus Kitchen at W&L.
When her summer research trip to Nepal was canceled because of COVID-19, Danika Brockman went to work for the Rockbridge Area Relief Association, where she helps with the food pantry.
Nick Watson '22 is spending the summer working on housing issues as part of his Shepherd internship with the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity in Vermont.
Bridget Bartley '21 interviews Shiri Yadlin '12, director of Just Homes, a nonprofit that helps faith communities address homelessness in D.C.
Garfinkel will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton
A class in Denmark, an internship in India and lots of eye-opening experiences in the Lexington community have encouraged Amanda Dorsey '21 to advocate for inclusion in the public health field.
Lainey Johnson '16 values connections with a variety of people from different backgrounds, which is something she learned to prize at W&L. 
W&L Law has announced a partnership with the Corella & Bertram F. Bonner Foundation that will provide a $10,000 annual scholarship for Bonner alumni admitted to the school.
Hannah Denham ’20 won first place in a prestigious feature writing competition for a piece she wrote during an internship at The Washington Post.
Working with Campus Kitchen at Washington and Lee has made Hannah Witherell '20 determined to continue helping others after she leaves W&L.
Danika Brockman '21 interviews Natasha Lerner '13 about making a difference in women's health.
Senior Laura Calhoun looks back at her W&L experience and celebrates the community she's built here. 
The popular pre-orientation program for first-year students at Washington and Lee University this year added a trip dedicated to black history and the civil rights movement. 
The Cleveland Daily Banner published an article about Jenne's SHECP internship at City of Refuge in Atlanta.
The Cape Town Program, a partnership between the Williams School and the Shepherd Program, provides students with an interdisciplinary experience they'll never forget.
James Ricks '21 is spending the summer working for The Oda Foundation in Nepal, where he is researching tobacco use and working with children to create a mural that represents health in their town.
Fon Teawdatwan '19 has led three service trips to Charleston, West Virginia, for Volunteer Venture, a service-learning, pre-orientation program for incoming students.
Mimi Miller '21 interviews Jennifer Smyrnos '12L  about practicing immigration law, a career that was inspired in part by her family heritage.
Washington Break at W&L is about exploration, whether that discovery involves Texas mountaintops, Japanese culture or career opportunities in New York.
Hannah Denham '20 has combined business journalism with women and gender studies at W&L to create a liberal arts education that suits her interests and ambition.
Ben Capouya '20 interviews Victoria Kumpuris Brown '98 about her career in food policy and health at the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
 The Bring Your Turkey to Work Day and the University Store’s food drive help provide Thanksgiving meals to the community.
This year’s event focuses on Exploring Careers and Issues in Social Innovation and Responsible Leadership.
James Ricks '21 interviews Dr. Jonathan Wortham '04 about his work with the Centers for Disease Control.
Molly Mann '20 combined fitness and service learning during her Shepherd summer internship at Back on My Feet in Washington, D.C.
Whether she's leading the Student Association for Black Unity, acting in a play or volunteering in the community as a Bonner Scholar, Sasha Edwards '20 is ever mindful that education can happen anywhere.
Anne Rodgers '20 completed a 2018 summer internship with Asylee Women Enterprise (AWE) through the Shepherd Program. These are her reflections.
Balen Essak '20 interviews Maisie Osteen '14L about her experiences with the Shepherd Program and as an assistant public defender.
Working in South Africa gave Will Hardage '20 a chance to combine his economics major and his poverty studies minor.
W&L Campus Kitchen summer interns practice leadership development through community service. 
Washington and Lee students utilize their summers through research, volunteer work and internship opportunities, both on campus and across the globe.
Ali Greenberg ’13 has opened a flexible workspace and social club in Richmond that emphasizes community for women and gender minorities.
She will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton followed by a service project in Morocco.
Mugo will attend the Public Policy and International Affairs Junior Summer Institute at the Heinz College at Carnegie Mellon.
Bri Shaw has spent her college career studying how humans work. Now, the senior has some ideas about how the humans at W&L could work better together.
Washington Break gave students a chance for learning and personal development, as well as all-out fun.
The grant will help train faculty and community partners to implement new partnerships and courses.
Peyton Powers '18 says studying poverty has helped him understand that "humans cannot be divorced from the dignity that is concomitant to life."
Her talk is titled "Does it Make Sense to Blame Corporations?" 
The talk is titled “Poverty, Inequality and Public Policies: Reflections on the End of the Safety Net As We Know It.” 
2Ls Bethny Barrett and Lauren Bennett spent their 1L summers in public interest positions funded by the Shepherd Program.
The Shepherd Poverty Program put Brent Beshore '05 on a different career path than the one he imagined.
Monica Musgrave '18 is already double-majoring, but that didn't stop her from spending six-weeks in England studying two completely different subjects.
Jackson Roberts '19 had the opportunity to intern in Quito, Ecuador, exploring local customs, becoming part of the community, and learning the ins and outs of healthcare.
Kate Donnelly ’11 is using her education and Shepherd experiences to improve her local community.
The William Jefferson Clinton Scholarship will allow Spiezio to attend the American University in Dubai during Winter Term 2018.
Marta Regn ’19 used her internship to throughly explore all aspects of a sustainable, ethical jewelry startup.
Working for the documentary filmmaking company Ark Media allowed Claire Hoffert '18 to exercise her research muscles and learn new skills.
Celebrating a major milestone in the Shepherd Poverty Program.
As director of the Shepherd Program, Howard Pickett focuses on bringing different voices to the table.
Here’s a look back at important milestones that shaped the program through the years. Pictured: Tom '52 and Nancy Shepherd, who made the gift that funded the Shepherd Program.
The Campus Kitchen Leadership Team at Washington and Lee University presents its annual “Turkeypalooza” from Nov. 9-16.  
Following the theme “Poverty, Inequality and Work Today,” the talk is titled "The Tumbleweed Society: What Happens When People Assume Job Insecurity Is Inevitable."
David Foster ’98 values W&L and the Shepherd Program as a training ground for the country's future leaders
This year’s event focuses on “Exploring Careers and Issues in Social Innovation and Responsible Leadership.”
With a Davis Projects for Peace grant, Angel Vela de la Garza Evia ’18 created an educational summer program for children in his hometown of Monterrey, Mexico. [With time-lapse VIDEO]
Matt Lubas '18 spent the summer in Zacapa, Guatamala, working at a prosthetic clinic for the Range of Motion Project.
John Bovay ’07, an assistant professor in the Department of Agricultural and Resource Economics at the University of Connecticut, focuses on the economics of food and agricultural policy
Lorena Hernandez Barcena '19 had an eye-opening summer internship with Harlem Children’s Zone, an education nonprofit in New York.
Shadowing doctors in Peru allowed Bryan D'Ostroph '19 to practice his Spanish and firm up future career plans in health care.
Through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty, Tyra Barrett '18 interned at the Camden Coalition of Healthcare Providers in New Jersey.
The Shepherd Poverty Program set Victoria Kumpuris Brown ’98 on the path to a career in philanthropy.
Zainab Abiza '19 spent the summer analyzing two Islamic State magazines in a timely project with Professor Seth Cantey.
Through the U.Va. Field School for Public Health Research, Julie Sklar '18 was able to work with a medical anthropologist and epidemiologist in South Africa this summer.
After spending Spring Term in Ethiopia, Jack Kaelin '19 is in Austin, Texas, helping refugees find a place to call home. 
W&L and VMI will host the 2017 Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty Frueauff Closing Conference and Symposium July 30 and 31.
Angel Vela de la Garza Evia ‘18 learned that research is two parts patience, two parts fun with lasers
Elena Diller '17 and Caroline Todd '17 saw a need for more perspective in academics — so they got to work.
Jake Roberts' study abroad trip started with an earthquake, and ended with him finding a passion for public health.
Zachary Taylor '17 and Austin Piatt '17 believe leadership, collaboration and responsibility are the keys to a successful conference.
Sierra Noland and Tara Cooper received Critical Language Scholarships sponsored by the U.S. Department of State.
Brett Becker '18 and the W&L Pre-Dental Club teamed up with Rockbridge Area Health Center to distribute dental supplies to more than 700 local children.
Guen splits his time between hiking the mountains of Rockbridge and traveling the world.
Whether they were doing service work in Birmingham, touring firms in NYC, or climbing an ice-encrusted mountain in New Hampshire, Washington and Lee students made the most of Washington Break.
W&L junior Angel Vela de la Garza Evia has won a $10,000 Davis Projects for Peace grant.
A passion for asking questions has led Batsheva Honig ‘17 from America to Argentina to study women’s health in both countries.
Hannah Falchuk's passion for journalism has her reporting both in New York City and local Rockbridge.
Meet Laura Beth Lavette ‘17, a senior with a passion for introducing first-year students to W&L.
A multi-disciplinary Community-Based Research project gave Washington and Lee University students a chance to help local organizations take a closer look at access to affordable healthy food.
Meet Matt Lubas '18, an engineer who spends his spare time building communities.
Professor Tim Diette testified before the Canadian House of Commons’ Standing Committee on Human Resources, Skills and Social Development and the Status of Persons with Disabilities.
Sejal Mistry ’17, a biology major and poverty studies minor, has completed a service project that aims to improve the nutritional value of foods in the Campus Kitchen at Washington and Lee’s Backpack Program.
Kara Karcher '11 is parlaying her studies in poverty and women's and gender studies into a law career dedicated to helping women and children.
"It's been exciting to serve in this role and see others get interested in the advertising field, as well as having the opportunity to spend time and plan with several fabulous members of the Williams School staff."
Michael Sullivan spent his summer interning at the Cultural Heritage Institute of the Netherlands in Amsterdam
Shepherd Intern Zach Taylor explores a holistic approach to middle school education at the Washington Jesuit Academy.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Cameron Lee interns at the Cluj School of Public Health in Romania.
"My W&L experience has been defined by my love of biology and my passion for being active in my community."
Macy, an award-winning journalist and author, spoke as part of the Fishback Visiting Writers program.
David Sugerman '99 combines medicine with social service, responding to crises around the world and training those on the front lines of disease control.
A double major in English and geology, plus a curiosity about the world around him, led Hanson to a career as a freelance writer, photographer and videographer. He is the author of "Breaking Through Concrete: Building an Urban Farm Revival" and producer of the documentary film "Who Owns the Water."
English major Kassie Scott '18 interns for an NGO focused on human rights and gender equality in Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
Sage Timberline is a biochemistry major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Richmond, Va. A member of the Class of 2015, she interned at the Downtown Health Plaza in Winston-Salem, N.C.
Shepherd Intern at Bridges, St. Paul's School in Baltimore.
Emma Busse is a sociology and economics major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Charleston, W.Va. A member of the Class of 2015, she spent a summer in Camden, N.J., as a Shepherd Intern with the Cooper's Ferry Partnership, development firm that uses a multi-faceted approach to make Camden a better place to live, work, and invest.
Shepherd Intern at Tapestri, Inc. in Atlanta.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete The Shepherd Program archive.