The opportunity to take a wide variety of classes has expanded Kramer's horizons.
The third-year assistant women's basketball coach was named to the WBCA Thirty Under 30 List.
Unger embraces the full W&L experience, including incredible academic opportunities and being a DIII athlete.
Generals’ mentor garners top conference honor after leading both sports to conference titles.
The sophomore goalkeeper boasts highest GPA of Final Four teams.
The Generals and Mammoths will meet in Friday's men's soccer semifinal in Salem, Virginia.
The first-year head coach led the Generals to their 13th straight conference title.
Generals’ mentor garners the award for the third time after winning his fourth ODAC title.
Generals’ Head Coach garners the award for the third time across his 11 seasons.
Will Wallace serves as the associate director of athletic communications.
Generals’ mentor garners the award for the second straight year and seventh time overall.
Nathan Shearer and Alex Radsky were both honored within the NCAA Southeast Region.
The Generals’ 11th-year head coach garnered the award for the second straight year.
The former W&L Athletic Director, chair of the department of physical education, and member of the W&L Athletics Hall of Fame, died Jan. 4, 2023.
Gordon Reistrup was presented with the Susan Hagan Memorial Trophy for the second time.
Endowment Remembering Jack Vardaman ’62 Will Support W&L Golf Teams
Ninth-year head coach named the league’s top coach for the fifth time.
New mentor garners recognition in her first season coaching the Generals.
Eighth-year head coach garners top conference honor for the fourth time.
Michael F. Walsh Director of Athletics Jan Hathorn was enshrined in the Intercollegiate Women’s Lacrosse Association (IWLCA) Hall of Fame during a ceremony held on Nov. 17.
Erin Ness serves as head women's tennis coach and senior woman administrator for athletics.
At W&L, Kirkland discovered that his two passions, sports and engineering, could be combined into one fulfilling pursuit. He's going to intern at a sports equipment company before heading to grad school at Purdue.
Washington and Lee athletic teams partnered with Boxerwood’s COREworks program on community projects to offset carbon emissions in Rockbridge County.
Mitchell Salvino ’23 is spearheading a fundraiser with his W&L baseball teammates to benefit the Angel Fund.
Nick Mosher '22 always finds support at W&L, whether he's writing a thesis on Russian politics, starting an online human rights newspaper or helping the football team win ODACs.
Washington and Lee enjoyed a tremendous fall athletics season that culminated with six programs competing in NCAA Championship events.
Bethany Dannelly is the associate director of athletics and assistant professor of physical education at Washington and Lee University.  
The W&L campus is buzzing with life again as students arrive for athletic practice, Pre-Orientation trips and other adventures to usher in Fall Term.
Franklin, a 2004 graduate of W&L, began his broadcast career as an undergraduate student.
Hughes’ award is part of ODK’s 2021 General Russell E. Dougherty National Leader of the Year competition.
It's the most wonderful term of the year, so keep an eye on @wlunews social media and this post for a daily dose of W&L's deeply engaging four-week term.
Jan Hathorn’s interview on the April episode of "W&L After Class: The Lifelong Learning Podcast" includes conversations about the new Duchossois Athletic and Recreation Center, the role of athletics in a W&L education, and her experiences as Washington and Lee’s first female athletic director.
Brian Laubscher, director of athletic communications at W&L, was recently recognized by the College Sports Information Directors of America with a 25-year service award.
In-person attendance at indoor W&L athletic events is still not possible because of COVID, but you can catch your favorite sports, athletes and coaches online this term.
Washington and Lee's brand new, 165,489-square-foot center for athletics and recreation offers larger and more state-of-the-art facilities for athletics and intramural teams, coaching staff, fitness and recreation.
The Perry Minority Athlete Coalition aims to boost the W&L community.
Erin Hughes '21 wants to use lessons learned in the classroom and on the basketball court to fight for systemic change in the world.
The new Richard L. Duchossois Athletic and Recreation Center has more than met the expectation of students who eagerly awaited its opening.
W&L’s strength and conditioning program adapts to the COVID-19 era.
The team organized a 5K in response to racial injustice and to benefit an NAACP grant named for professor of history emeritus Ted DeLaney.
Peccie’s award is part of ODK’s 2020 General Russell E. Dougherty National Leader of the Year Competition.
Alex '13, Parker '17 and Hudson Hamill '20 have all thrived at Washington and Lee, their father's alma mater.
As the new athletic and recreation center approaches completion, here's a peek at the transformation so far. 
The virtual 5K will benefit the Rockbridge Area Relief Association.
Whether he's on the football field or in the Mock Con war room, Kyle Perel '20 never forgets about the importance of teamwork and adaptable leadership.
Laurie Jones '21 is grateful for the opportunities she's had at W&L, especially her place on the golf team and the chance to study through the Peace and Conflict Program in Ireland and Jordan.
Rigorous academics and a nationally ranked soccer program made W&L an ideal fit for Danny Tran '21.
Washington and Lee University Wrestling has teamed up with a nonprofit called Beat the Streets to educate and empower young men and women through the sport of wrestling.
Take a photo tour of the Richard L. Duchossois Athletic and Recreation Center as the project nears the halfway point.
As director of sports information, Brian Laubscher puts in long hours to make sure W&L athletic teams get the recognition they deserve.
Three donors have recognized the role coaches play in educating and mentoring W&L students, both in the competitive arena and in the classroom.
As construction continues on W&L's new, state-of-the-art Richard L. Duchossois Athletic and Recreation Center, we offer a virtual tour—no hard hat required!
Mary-Frances Hall '18  is the 23rd W&L student-athlete selected to receive a scholarship over the last 15 years.
W&L clinches fund-raising goal of $50 million for athletic facilities.
With the support of teammates, professors and friends, Nicholas George '18 was able to balance two majors and a spot on the basketball team.
The awards were presented during W&L's Athletics Awards Ceremony on May 15.
Emily Perszyk ’18 reflects on what W&L has to offer in the classroom and on the court — and how it led to her interest in the study of taste, smell and flavor.
W&L women track athletes teamed up with Rockbridge Area Community Services for RunJumpThrow, a national program that teaches kids about physical activity.
Murtha is the first W&L men's basketball player selected to compete in the contest in program history.
The Department of Physical Education, Athletics and Recreation will operate with the use of transitional spaces until the expected completion of the project for the start of the 2020-21 school year. 
LeRose previously served as the program's assistant head coach and coach of tight ends and wide receivers. 
Brett Strohsacker ’06, who played soccer and majored in mass communications at W&L, has worked his way to the top of the Philadelphia Eagles PR team.
A week of activities to mark the 45th anniversary of Title IX will culminate in a W&L visit by soccer great Mia Hamm on Feb. 1.
W&L will name its new indoor athletics and recreation facility for Duchossois '44 in recognition of his leadership support of the project.
Multiple teams won ODAC championship titles and saw NCAA Tournament action, while honors stacked up for individual Generals.
W&L was one of only 195 schools to have both its men’s and women’s programs receive the award.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Athletics archive.