Robbins comes to Washington and Lee after serving as an academic advisor at the University of Michigan.
The recent renovation of the second and third floors of Elrod Commons has provided staff and students with new and improved workspaces.
The Weinstein Scholar annual program invited students to take a culinary trip around the world without leaving the Washington and Lee campus.
After receiving a great deal of support from upperclassmen at Washington and Lee University, Hannah Puckett ’23 pays it forward by dedicating her time to mentoring and counseling first-year students.
Members of the Washington and Lee University community are responding to last month’s incursion by offering educational opportunities and raising funds for relief efforts.
The award covers full tuition and includes a $10,000 stipend toward living expenses.
The university’s new religion minor requires completion of six courses and complements any major.
The award honors professionals whose passion and devotion to the Jewish campus community enrich the lives of Hillel students.
A decade after the building's dedication, W&L Hillel shines brighter than ever.
Hillel International’s civic engagement initiative challenged campuses across the country to get students engaged in the presidential election, and W&L Hillel led the way.
As Executive Committee president for the 2020-21 school year, Chase Calhoun '21 hopes to protect the Honor System and make a positive impact in areas of racial inequality and systemic racism.
With help from Hillel International, Director of Jewish Life Maggie Shapiro Haskett has been able to successfully adapt programming to suit the new normal.
Bridget Bartley '21 interviews Shiri Yadlin '12, director of Just Homes, a nonprofit that helps faith communities address homelessness in D.C.
Washington and Lee University’s Student Affairs staff worked tirelessly to support students through the COVID-19 pandemic and the move to virtual instruction.
Jordan Goldstein's Washington and Lee journey can be followed through her love of music, her adventures on the stage — and the length of her hair. 
Meet Shlomo Honig ‘18, whose day consists of analyzing rocks, protecting the environment, and ultimate frisbee
Meet Tessa Horan '18, a pre-med, self-proclaimed "tree-hugger" with big plans for making the university - and the world - a little greener.
Alex Meilech '18 has experienced tradition - from Lexington, Virginia to Buenos Aires, Argentina.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Religious Life archive.