Jonathan Gingerich will deliver the keynote address at the virtual conference on Feb. 17.
The Human Library, a collaboration between the Mudd Center for Ethics and Leyburn Library, brought the W&L community together in conversation.
Chang, an urban artist and designer, will give a lecture on Feb. 19 at 5 p.m.
Cleckley, assistant professor of architecture and design at the University of Virginia, will give a lecture on Feb. 1 at 5 p.m.
Wei, a stage combat instructor, will host a workshop on Jan. 30 at 5 p.m.
The W&L community is invited to participate in the public art project, on view in Leyburn Library beginning Jan. 11.
The associate professor of art history will serve as the Mudd Center Director for three years beginning July 1, 2024.
Hendren, a professor at Northeastern University, will give a lecture on Nov. 9 at 5 p.m.
Jennifer Blumenthal-Barby, a professor at Baylor College of Medicine, will give a lecture on Oct. 26 at 5 p.m.
George Aye, co-founder and director of innovation at Greater Good Studio, will give a lecture on Oct. 9 at 5 p.m.
“Ethics of Design” kicks off Sept. 21 with a keynote address by MIT Professor Danielle Wood.
Richard Weissbourd will give a virtual lecture on March 21 at 5 p.m. 
The campus community will recognize women’s achievements with various events throughout the month of March.
The virtual conference on March 4 will feature students from across the country.
Céline Leboeuf, an associate professor of philosophy at Florida International University, will give a public lecture in Hillel 101 on March 9 at 4 p.m.
Lynn Chin, an associate professor of sociology at Washington and Lee University, will give a lecture on March 2 at 5 p.m.
Terrence Johnson, professor of African American religious studies at Harvard University, will discuss his latest book on March 1.
Seema Gajwani, a special counsel for juvenile justice reform at the D.C. Office of the Attorney General, will give a lecture on Feb. 9 at 5 p.m.
The playwright will host a screening of his play “Citizen James” and a playwriting workshop Feb. 14-15.
John Lysaker, a professor of philosophy at Emory University, will give a lecture on Jan. 30 at 5 p.m.
Wingard Cunningham joins W&L from College of Wooster, where she is the Mildred Foss Thompson Professor of English and dean for faculty development.
Mueller will give a public lecture in Northen Auditorium on Nov. 9 at 5 p.m.
Oscar Jerome Stewart, an assistant professor of management at the College of Charleston, will lecture on Nov. 3 at 5 p.m.
These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university. 
Helen Y. Weng, a clinical psychologist, neuroscientist and research associate at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) Osher Center for Integrative Health, will give a lecture on Sept. 22 at 5 p.m.
The title of Murdock’s talk is “Paying attention: Habits of Mind and Psychological Well-being.”
“Beneficence: Practicing an Ethics of Care” kicks off Sept. 15 with a keynote address by Professor Karen Stohr.
 Katharine Hayhoe will give a virtual lecture at W&L on March 14 at 5:30 p.m.
Neeru Paharia, associate professor at Georgetown University’s McDonough School of Business, will give a public lecture on March 9 at 5 p.m. at W&L.
As part of its 2021-22 lecture series on daily ethics, the Roger Mudd Center for Ethics at Washington and Lee University partnered with Staniar Gallery and invited community members to participate in a collaborative art project called the Daily Ethics Mosaic, which is now on display in Wilson Hall's Lykes Atrium.
The large-scale community artwork created as part of a Mudd Center program will be on view in Wilson Hall's Lykes Atrium through Feb. 9. 
Chantal Bilodeau, the founder and artistic director of The Arctic Cycle, will give a lecture on Nov. 11 at 5 p.m. 
Andrew Chignell, a professor at Princeton University, will give a lecture on Oct. 28 at 5 p.m. 
Cobb, a staff writer for The New Yorker, will give a lecture at W&L on Oct. 7.
"Daily Ethics: How Individual Choices and Habits Express Our Values and Shape Our World” kicks off Sept. 27 with a keynote address by Professor of Philosophy Cheshire Calhoun.
Two presenters who met at a 2017 conference at Washington and Lee joined forces to repatriate a stolen Nepali deity. 
Hostile Terrain 94, a global pop-up exhibit that takes a powerful look at the human cost of undocumented migration at the U.S. southern border, opened at W&L this week after years of planning and collaboration.
De León will give a virtual lecture on May 4 at 5 p.m. as part of W&L's Mudd Center for Ethics series.
Jeremy Weissman will talk about his recent book, “The Crowdsourced Panopticon: Conformity and Control on Social Media,” on March 31.
Katrina Forrester will give a virtual lecture on March 25 at 5 p.m. as part of W&L’s Mudd Center for Ethics series.
Felix Kwame Yeboah will give a virtual lecture on March 15 at 5 p.m. as part of W&L’s Mudd Center for Ethics series.
The award-winning journalist covered some of the most important stories of the 20th century.
Bioh's hit comedy "School Girls; Or, The African Mean Girls Play" will be screened online March 16, and a virtual talk by Bioh will occur March 18.
The two-day virtual conference will begin March 6 and feature students located across the country.
Mudd Postdoctoral Ethics Fellow Jeremy Weissman recently published a textbook titled "The Crowdsourced Panopticon: Conformity and Control on Social Media."
"W&L After Class: The Lifelong Learning Podcast" invites listeners to join conversations with W&L's expert faculty, giving them a walk down the Colonnade from the comfort of their home.
Valerie Hudson, George H.W. Bush Chair and professor of international affairs at Texas A&M University, will deliver a virtual lecture on Feb. 15 at 5 p.m. as part of W&L’s Mudd Center for Ethics series.
Assistant Professor Erin Taylor and Dr. Ralph Caldroney’s public discussion, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Ethical Issues in the Context of Covid-19."
COVID-19 may have forced events to go virtual this Fall Term, but that means some guest speaker talks and art exhibits can still be enjoyed online.
Dr. Jonathan Wortham '04 is the outbreak investigations team leader in the Division of Tuberculosis Elimination at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Elizabeth Kolbert, a staff writer for The New Yorker, will give a virtual lecture on Oct. 29 at 5 p.m. 
Karla Klein Murdock, professor of cognitive and behavioral science at Washington and Lee University, has been named the next Roger Mudd Professor of Ethics and director of the university’s Roger Mudd Center for Ethics.
Slaughter's lecture, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Renewing the Promise of America: Looking Back to Move Forward."
Rice's lecture, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Cultural Norms and the Export of the W&L Honor System."
“Global Ethics in the 21st Century: Opportunities and Challenges,” a collaboration between the Mudd Center for Ethics and the Center for International Education, kicks off Sept. 24 with a keynote address by former U.S. ambassador and Sewanee University President Reuben E. Brigety.
Tolu Olubunmi, a 2002 graduate of Washington and Lee, will return to her alma mater as the guest speaker for Washington and Lee’s first International Day of Peace event. 
Franks, a professor of law at the University of Miami School of Law, will discuss the topic of her 2019 book, “The Cult of the Constitution: Our Deadly Devotion to Guns and Free Speech.”
The conference is titled Ethics and Technology: Surveillance, Civil Rights, and Cyber-Security.
The conference is free and open to the public.
Their talk is titled "The New Appendage: Cellphones in Cognitive and Behavioral Context."
Franklin Foer, a national correspondent for The Atlantic and a fellow at the New American Foundation, will give a public lecture at W&L.
Eubanks' talk is titled "The Shakedown State: Digital Debt, Economic Inequality and Automation in Public Services."
Nissenbaum's talk, which is free, is titled "Privacy as Contextual Integrity: Thwarting the Great Regulatory Dodge."
Arkin is a roboticist and roboethicist.
Smith’s talk is titled “An Ethical Framework for a God-Like Intellect.”
The talk is free and open to the public.
Johnston’s talk is titled “The Good Parent in an Age of Gene Editing: How Novel Genetic Technologies Challenge Parental Responsibility.” 
Lear's  talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “What Would It Be to Mourn Gettysburg?"
Luban’s lecture, which is titled "The Ethics of Professional Identities in Law and War,” will explore facets of professional identity.
The title of her talk, which is free and open to the public, is "Exile in Memory."
Rebecca M. Jordan-Young, a sociomedical scientist, is the fourth speaker in the 2017-18 “Ethics of Identity” series.
Vogel's talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “The Art of Tolerance.”
The title of Foeman's lecture is "DNA and Identity: Changing the Conversation About Who We Are."
Appiah will speak on “The Ethics of Identity: The Injuries of Class.” 
After taking a course at Augusta Correctional Center, two W&L juniors helped to organize an exhibition at the university featuring artwork by artists who are incarcerated. The exhibit is entitled “Unfreedom of Expression.” 
Her talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “An Untold Story of Black Intellectuals and Egyptology.”
Wodak will speak on “Fake News and Echo Chambers.”
The title of her talk is “Epistemic Equality as a Condition of Well-Functioning Blame.”
Parks is the eighth speaker in the 2017–18 Equality and Difference series, sponsored by the W&L's Mudd Center for Ethics.
The title of his talk is “Equality and the Fourth Amendment.”
Laura I. Gómez, founder and CEO of venture-backed startup Atipica, Inc., is the sixth speaker in the 2017-18 Equality and Difference series.
Brian C. Murchison, the Charles S. Rowe Professor of Law at Washington and Lee University, will be the new Roger Mudd Professor of Ethics and director of the Mudd Center for Ethics, beginning July 1, 2018. He succeeds Angela Smith, who was named the Mudd Center’s inaugural director in 2013 and is returning to her full-time faculty role as professor of philosophy.
Maggie Little, director of the Kennedy Institute of Ethics (KIE) at Georgetown University, will speak on “Research With Pregnant Women: A Moral Imperative.”
Scanlon will speak on “Further Reflections on Tolerance (and Some Implications for Immigration).”
The event will feature a talk from Charlie Schmidt, a public policy associate at the America Civil Liberties Union of Virginia.
Woodzicka's talk is titled “Are All Jokes Created Equal? Differential Effects of Group-Based Disparagement Humor.”
Ramadan will speak on “Equality as a Social Requirement and a Human Ideal.”
The first lecturer will be Tariq Ramadan of Oxford University, whose talk is titled: “Equality as a Social Requirement and Human Ideal.”
Zachary Taylor '17 and Austin Piatt '17 believe leadership, collaboration and responsibility are the keys to a successful conference.
Robert Reich, professor of political science at Stanford University, will give a lecture on “Repugnant to the Whole Idea of a Democratic Society?: On the Role of Philanthropic Foundations.”
Sahar Akhtar, assistant professor in the department of philosophy at U.Va., will speak on "Why Religious and Racial Immigration Bans are Wrong."
Deborah G. Johnson, the Olsson Professor of Applied Ethics and Emeritus, Science, Technology and Society Program at U.Va., will discuss the question, “Does Engineering Need a Code of Ethics?”
Staniar Gallery partnering with the Mudd Center to host exhibition, “Remembering the Lost: Community Responses to the Theft of Nepal’s Sacred Sculptures” Feb. 9-Mar. 17.
Sandra Reiter, associate professor of business administration at Washington and Lee University, will give a talk on Feb. 15 as part of W&L’s Roger Mudd Center for Ethics Markets and Morals series.
University of Maryland professor Jennifer Golbeck will speak on “Footprints in the Digital Dust: How Your Online Behavior Says More Than You Think.”
Poet and author Susan Briante will read from “The Market Wonders,” a lyric investigation into the stock market.
In an interview with the Christian Science Monitor, Colón points to the key questions that must be asked when determining if the graphic nature of a photograph outweighs its journalistic importance.
Children’s author, educator and social activist will discuss “Education, Poverty and Social Justice in an Age of Persistent Inequality.”
Harvard Business School professor Nien-hê Hsieh to lecture on “The Role and Responsibilities of Business in Society: Back to Basics.”
Keith Woods, vice president of diversity in news and operations at NPR, will deliver the keynote address for the 62nd Ethics Institute in Journalism.
Peter Wittig, German Ambassador to the U.S., will speak on “German Policy Toward the European Refugee Crisis” at W&L's Institute for Honor Symposium.
Kimberly Krawiec, the Kathrine Robinson Everett Professor of Law at Duke University and senior fellow and faculty council member at the Kenan Institute for Ethics, will give a lecture on “Gifts Within Markets? Taboo Trades in the Human Body.”
The conference will explore two fundamental but related themes: the ethical issues surrounding the valuation of ecosystem services and the proper role of preference satisfaction in the development of environmental policy.
Angela Smith sits down with award-winning journalist Roger Mudd '50 to discuss the Mudd Center for Ethics.
Seniors Teddy Corcoran and Stephanie Foster get students from around the country talking about ethics.
ODK National Leader of the Year Paqui Toscano talks about his approach to leadership.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Mudd Center for Ethics archive.