Scott’s passion for the environment carries over from the classroom to opportunities on campus and beyond.
With medical school on the horizon, Tyler embraces many opportunities such as research fellowship, studying abroad and sorority life.
A global politics and economics double major, Dantini found his ‘home’ on campus with the University Singers.
The premiere event will be followed by a student-led discussion about their experiences and the creative journey in producing the films.
W&L students in this Spring Term’s “Swedish Theater” course were immersed in culture during their three weeks in Stockholm, Sweden.
Washington and Lee’s Class of 2023 includes nine recipients of the Certificate of International Immersion awarded by W&L’s Center for International Education.
Students in Elliott King’s Spring Term class, “Modern Art in Barcelona,” are being steeped in Spanish art, history and architecture during an unforgettable educational trip to Barcelona and Madrid.
Students in Michael and Lena Hill’s Spring Term course are discovering what inspired writers of past generations.
Rafay Hassan '22 was looking for a liberal arts university that would give him individualized attention and put his critical thinking skills to the test. He found that and more at W&L. 
Cindy Irby, assistant director of international education and study abroad advisor at W&L, says her experience as a member of Up with People — which included participation in a Super Bowl halftime show — helps to inspire her as she makes study abroad opportunities possible for W&L students.
Julia Hernandez took a Spring Term class in Ghana and studied abroad in France and Morocco, proving that W&L is a gateway to opportunities all over the globe.
 In 2021, students will have the opportunity to study in Ghana for both Winter and Spring Terms.
With the support of faculty and fellow students, Charlotte Cook '19 acted in seven theater productions at W&L while juggling a major, two minors and other extracurricular activities.
Spring Term allows W&L students to focus intensely on one topic for four weeks, or to create an experience that is unique to their educational path.
Kat Oakley '19 has spent a lot of time contemplating the idea of "place" - both in Lexington and across the world. 
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Spring Term Abroad archive.