Laura Murambadoro ’26 brings varied interests, a collaborative leadership style and a passion for community engagement to W&L’s campus.
The Feb. 10 event will include performances and a dinner.
Washington and Lee students are making a dynamic impact in the community through National Pan-Hellenic Council organizations.
Bottoms, the former mayor of Atlanta, will headline the weeklong programming on campus.
The Oct. 29 event celebrates the history and culture of NPHC organizations.
The Comunidad Latina Estudiantil student group has planned and organized numerous events in collaboration with the Office of Inclusion and Engagement.
Students, faculty and staff are encouraged to sell unwanted items and donate any unsold items to benefit local nonprofit organizations. 
The Leadership Excellence Awards give recognition and thanks to nominated students and organizations for their many efforts on W&L’s campus.
Dylan Santella ’25 presented “Gender and The Face: Expanding Upon the Butlerian Model of Ethics” at the undergraduate conference held March 31 at Swarthmore College.
The campus community will promote sustainability and environmental advocacy with various events throughout the month of April.
The Feb. 11 event celebrates the history and culture of NPHC organizations.
The playwright will host a screening of his play “Citizen James” and a playwriting workshop Feb. 14-15.
Campus Kitchen’s annual event series continues with its Winter Term 2023 lineup, examining the many ways in which the food system interacts with social justice issues.
Solomon will provide strategies for fostering generational diversity and inclusion during her session in Stackhouse Theater on Jan. 4.
Chantal Smith, assistant professor of economics, was selected for the one-year position to pursue research and course development.
The Office of Inclusion and Engagement organized and hosted events to mark the occasion in collaboration with the Office of Alumni and Career Services and the Harte Center for Teaching and Learning.
Robbins comes to Washington and Lee after serving as an academic advisor at the University of Michigan.
The recent renovation of the second and third floors of Elrod Commons has provided staff and students with new and improved workspaces.
The annual event brought 1,800 people to campus.
Fio serves as the senior program coordinator for the Office of Inclusion and Engagement.
Campus Kitchen’s annual event series examines the many ways in which the food system interacts with issues of justice.
Michele Thornton Ghee, the CEO of 1145 Holdings, the holding company of EBONY and Jet, will give a public lecture at W&L on March 21 at 5:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. 
The theme for this year's Black FLEX conference is Global Cooperation.
Washington and Lee's weeklong celebration of the life and legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. will include an address by Yusef Salaam, a member of the “Exonerated Five.”
This year's observance of MLK day will comprise a variety of events and lectures.
Lauren Hoaglund '22 has parlayed her passion for medieval and Renaissance history, literature, classics and theater into a busy but rewarding four years at W&L.
The university recently celebrated National First-Generation College Student Day to recognize student achievement and remind the community about support resources for first-generation and low-income students at W&L.
Organizations across the Lexington and Rockbridge County areas have planned a Juneteenth event that will include an art show, live music, a free raffle and more. 
The series will end the academic year with a roundtable discussion on May 19 at 6 p.m. titled "The Black Freedom Struggle: Verdicts on Advocacy."
Washington and Lee University’s Office of Inclusion and Engagement recently released a video featuring members of W&L’s Asian and Pacific Islander community, calling on the world to notice, and end, incidents of hate.
On March 9, Heumann will share her experiences advocating for disability rights and discuss the movement's future.
The Feb. 24 online lecture, titled “Black Entrepreneurs: Where Does Money Fit into Protest?,” will examine capitalism as a part of the Black freedom-fighting arsenal.
Renovations to the John W. Elrod Commons will create spaces to expand collaborations and conversations.
The conversation on Feb. 23 at 6:30 p.m. will center on the intersection of LGBTQ+ identity and religious affiliations and practices. 
The Office of Inclusion and Engagement (OIE) supports Washington and Lee University's mission by striving to foster a culture in which all community members feel entirely welcome and able to participate in everything the university has to offer.
W&L’s Office of Inclusion and Engagement is expanding, reaching an unprecedented number of people with its programming.
W&L presents a monthlong schedule of events celebrating Black History Month.
The Student Association for Black Unity will hold the online event, which is free and open to the public to watch online.
The series will present two events, "Looking at Blackness" and "Legislative Leverage: Democratic Processes as Activism,” in late January.
This year's observance of MLK day will comprise a variety of virtual events and lectures.
Jerónimo Reyes '21 says he is so immensely grateful for the gifts in his life, including a QuestBridge scholarship to W&L, that he wants to become a doctor and devote his career to helping others. 
Washington and Lee University is among the 51 inaugural member institutions* of the Liberal Arts Colleges Racial Equity Leadership Alliance, a new initiative from the University of Southern California's Race and Equity Center.
The Perry Minority Athlete Coalition aims to boost the W&L community.
Enuma Anekwe-Desince '22 has found her niche at Washington and Lee University through her involvement in the Advanced Immersion and Mentoring Program, leadership roles in student organizations, and work as a research assistant in the sociology and psychology departments.
At the virtual event, participants will explore how activism takes many forms, why specific actions are labeled as sedentary, and whether these forms of activism help, harm or do not affect the message.
Thank You Donors!
Kendi, author of three acclaimed books on the topic of race and discrimination in America, including “How to Be an Antiracist,” will address the W&L community on Sunday, Aug. 30 at 6 p.m.
Tolu Olubunmi, a 2002 graduate of Washington and Lee, will return to her alma mater as the guest speaker for Washington and Lee’s first International Day of Peace event. 
The Africana Studies Program at W&L, in partnership with the Rupert H. Johnson Jr. Program in Leadership and Integrity, will host a series of events focused on activism and Black life. It kicks off Aug. 26 with a panel discussion featuring three W&L faculty members.
With help from Hillel International, Director of Jewish Life Maggie Shapiro Haskett has been able to successfully adapt programming to suit the new normal.
Five professors from Washington and Lee University held an online panel offering “Perspectives on Black Protest: Comprehending the Current Crisis.”
A group of dedicated alumni took action to leverage meaningful changes on campus to increase inclusion and diversity.
Washington and Lee University’s Student Affairs staff worked tirelessly to support students through the COVID-19 pandemic and the move to virtual instruction.
W&L’s first Black Future Leaders Experience (FLEX) conference brought alumni and staff together to mentor students from across central Virginia on how to thrive in white spaces, navigate politics and serve as leaders.
Nominations for W&L’s LEAD Banquet Awards allow any member of the university community to recognize a student or group’s outstanding contributions in one or more of 23 areas.
A student-led annual celebration of black literary culture opened the Student Association for Black Unity’s programming for Black History Month at Washington and Lee University.
The university’s first Black Future Leaders Experience Conference will take place on Feb. 8.
Washington and Lee's week-long celebration of the life and legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. will include an address by Ruby Bridges, who helped to integrate New Orleans public schools.
The popular pre-orientation program for first-year students at Washington and Lee University this year added a trip dedicated to black history and the civil rights movement. 
MaKayla Lorick '19 is collecting oral histories from African-American alumni, faculty and staff as part of a project that aims to include those missing perspectives in Washington and Lee University's history of desegregation and integration.
The Office of Inclusion and Engagement planned a host of events to honor the legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. Take our slideshow for a quick spin to relive the excitement.
This year's observance of MLK day will comprise a variety of events, including a keynote address by the Rev. William Barber II.
Community and social support form the heart of W&L's newest theme house.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Office of Inclusion and Engagement archive.