A meeting with a Broadway legend allowed engineering major Zaria Daniels ’26 to take her vocal talents to Cuba.
The Harte Center for Teaching and Learning is bringing student voices to a new podcast designed to share perspectives on transitioning to college life.
Laura Murambadoro ’26 brings varied interests, a collaborative leadership style and a passion for community engagement to W&L’s campus.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company’s alumni-student dance performance in New York City’s Center for Performance Research returned after a four-year hiatus.
Washington and Lee students are applying their accounting skills in the community as part of the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance program. 
Washington and Lee’s chapter of Remote Area Medical takes students to remote rural areas to provide medical services and gain valuable practical experience along the way.
Washington and Lee University’s Special Collections and Archives has been working with the 2024 Mock Convention to debut an exhibit showcasing extraordinary items from past conventions.
Students in the Williams School consulted on a number of projects including marketing, research and social media strategy for businesses and organizations.
The 28th Mock Convention’s Presidential Gala on Nov. 12 offered the campus a glimpse of the upcoming excitement for the 2024 mock presidential convention.
W&L’s recent staging of ‘Speech & Debate’ brought its cast, crew and audience an opportunity to engage with an innovative, collaborative approach to theater.
“Mohammad Omer Khalil: Musings,” co-curated by four Washington and Lee students as part of a seminar course in museum studies, will be on display in the Watson Galleries Sept. 28, 2023 through June 1, 2024.
Washington and Lee's Leading Edge program welcomed the Class of 2027 to campus with dynamic programs designed to build community.
Washington and Lee students gain new perspectives after internships through the Shepherd Program.
Washington and Lee students explored the world this summer thanks to grant funding opportunities through the Center for International Education.
This summer, Washington and Lee students experienced life in London as part of an immersive program offered through the Williams School.
Washington and Lee’s Museum Artist-in-Residence Program welcomed photographer Stephanie Shih to campus in May to create new work based on the Museums’ art collection.
W&L students in this Spring Term’s “Swedish Theater” course were immersed in culture during their three weeks in Stockholm, Sweden.
Washington and Lee’s Class of 2023 includes nine recipients of the Certificate of International Immersion awarded by W&L’s Center for International Education.
The DeLaney Center’s latest research project connects current students with a rich legacy.
W&L neuroscience students recently partnered with an innovative art-making program offered at Kendal at Lexington.
Sharon Mendieta Ramirez ’23 has designed her W&L experience to prepare her for her career as an educator.
The Leadership Excellence Awards give recognition and thanks to nominated students and organizations for their many efforts on W&L’s campus.
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join conversations with W&L's expert faculty about their teaching, research and passion projects.
Washington and Lee's Center for International Education awarded two students funding to study Arabic at the University of Jordan this summer.
CBL’s new initiative is an opportunity for faculty development, student collaboration and deepening partnerships with the surrounding community.
Mock Convention is gathering steam as the organization prepares for its Spring Kickoff event on March 21.
Students in Professor Marisa Charley’s POV102 course helped local elementary school children tell stories this fall through photovoice research.
Avalon Pernell ’23 credits the mentorship she received on campus as she launches her career in business journalism.
For more than 20 years, ESOL volunteers have participated in language and literacy work in the Lexington-Rockbridge area and beyond.
W&L’s choral conducting mentorship program helps students find and follow their passions through music and mentorship.
The monthly podcast explores Washington and Lee faculty's research, teaching and passion projects.
Washington and Lee’s second annual Greek Leadership Institute provides students with foundational leadership skills and a chance to connect before formal recruitment begins.
Community-Based Learning’s collaborations this fall offered students an opportunity to deepen community connections.
This fall, Washington and Lee Student Consulting tackled a new project for a local business with a sustainability focus.
Sadie Charles Calame ’23 has built a well-rounded college experience through campus and community involvement.
Students in Jon Erickson's Electrical Circuits course are learning through teaching local elementary school students.
The first From Screen to Square event will take place on Monday, Nov. 7.
Students in FYE 100 benefit from collaboration from faculty, staff and students.
Ahmad Ohmid Arman ’23 arrived on campus as a Gunn Scholar in 2021 and is making the most of his long-awaited W&L experience.
Alumni and friends of the Bonner Program are invited to a reception in Mattingly House during Young Alumni Weekend.
Join members of the W&L choral program for a Parents and Family Weekend choral concert on Sept. 30, at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
Booker will give a lecture on Sept. 27 at 5 p.m. in in Leyburn Library’s Northen Auditorium.
Washington and Lee students blazed their own trails this summer to pursue their passions.
SHECP internships provide work experiences that are impactful for both the students and the communities they serve.
Bonner Kirkland '23 conducted biomedical research this summer in the Children’s National Hospital’s Department of Genetic Medicine.
Aishwarya Vemagiri '25 hopes her summer research experience on diet-induced obesity will lead to a career in the medical field.
Kiera Stankewich ’25 tackled food justice in Louisville, Kentucky this summer through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty.
Collin Frazey ’23 spent his summer working for Meta's intellectual property team in the heart of Silicon Valley.
Washington and Lee University’s Advanced Immersion and Mentoring (AIM) Scholars Summer Program offers a residential and virtual format to meet students’ needs.
Brendan Smith ’24 worked in the British House of Commons as a parliamentary research intern in London.
Kristina Ayers '25 is interning at a medical clinic for the homeless in Washington, D.C. through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty.
Margaret Witkofsky '24 is researching grants for the city of Lexington, Virginia through her internship with the Office of Community-Based Learning.
Lucy Worthy ’24 is conducting clinical research and shadowing a physician at the Mayo Clinic.
Marcus Payne '25 is spending his summer doing geology research with Professor of Earth and Environmental Geoscience Jeffrey Rahl.
Kayla Monaghan ’24 is collaborating on a Summer Research Scholars (SRS) project to enhance resources available through Leyburn Library.
Diwesh Kumar ’24 is developing investment banking expertise at his summer internship at Boxwood Partners in Richmond, Virginia. 
Lily Mott '23 is interning this summer at News Over Audio in Dublin, Ireland, where she is finding fulfillment at the intersection of politics and journalism.
Sarah Burd ’24 is spending her summer working for a medical technology company in Vienna, Austria, that specializes in prosthetic limbs.
Eric Bazile '25 is interning with the Austin Greater Chamber of Commerce through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty (SHECP).
Students in Michael and Lena Hill’s Spring Term course are discovering what inspired writers of past generations.
In this Spring Term course, Washington and Lee students are making data science look like a walk in the park.
CSI: W&L students are learning forensic science with the help of a real FBI evidence response team.
The recent Community Cupboards collaboration with the Virginia Cooperative Extension offered students the opportunity to tackle food insecurity from a cross-disciplinary perspective.
After receiving a great deal of support from upperclassmen at Washington and Lee University, Hannah Puckett ’23 pays it forward by dedicating her time to mentoring and counseling first-year students.
Between the classroom and her community volunteer work, Katherine Ho '23 has built a W&L experience that is already paying off in the career world.
As  part of a community-based learning class in the Sociology and Anthropology Department, students worked with community partners to create a workshop about positive sexual culture for first-year students.
Nick Mosher '22 always finds support at W&L, whether he's writing a thesis on Russian politics, starting an online human rights newspaper or helping the football team win ODACs.
Amelia Lancaster '22 has used her W&L experience to explore a number of interests, ultimately finding a passion in museum studies and Chinese that has allowed her to co-curate a museum exhibition on campus.
Seay's business, GOES, involves using specialized greenhouses as a form of carbon capture technology.
Allie Stankewich '23 spent summer 2021 learning about public health in Uganda and green roofs in New York City.
W&L seniors Will Gentry and Gray Carlton started Lexington Harvest Haul to deliver local food to consumers. They’re now looking to sell the successful business before they leave Lexington after graduation.
As part of a community-based learning course in collaboration with Rockbridge Regional Tourism and the Rockbridge Historical Society, Washington and Lee University students researched and mapped Black-owned businesses that thrived in Lexington during the Jim Crow era.
"Intimate Violence," a documentary about domestic violence by W&L professor Stephanie Sandberg and junior Nolan Zunk, has been recognized by three film festivals.
Helping with sheep at Tom Stanley's farm is providing Isaiah Medina '22 and Abby Hamilton '22 with valuable experience that they can include on future veterinary school applications. 
The cast and crew of W&L’s upcoming Bentley Musical, “Little Women,” tackled a host of pandemic-related challenges to produce a film version of the show that will be screened for audiences March 30-April 2. 
In a recent in-class project, seven W&L students used materials found around campus to discuss a broader historical narrative and create a piece now on display in Staniar Gallery.
Melissa Yorio '21 has received support from many corners during her college career, so when the pandemic broke out, she found a way to give back within her hometown community. 
W&L has allowed Christopher Watt '21 to meet other members of the community and find a future career where three of his passions converge.
Despite COVID-19, Jared Nickodem '20 was able to make it to Austria, where he is teaching English to students as part of the U.S. Teaching Assistant Program.
The pandemic has presented challenges to working and learning within the community, but virtual and distanced projects have allowed those partnerships to continue to bear fruit this year. 
At W&L, Lorena Terroba Urruchua ’21 found her purpose — helping people with disabilities — at the intersection of psychology, Romance languages and poverty studies. 
Students in Professor Dayo Abah’s Principles of Public Relations class worked with a Lexington nonprofit  to make a life skills book for clients who are trying to get back on their feet.
Enuma Anekwe-Desince '22 has found her niche at Washington and Lee University through her involvement in the Advanced Immersion and Mentoring Program, leadership roles in student organizations, and work as a research assistant in the sociology and psychology departments.
The COVID-19 pandemic has failed to hinder Washington and Lee University professors, who have adapted creatively to teach both in person and virtually this term.
At W&L, Mary North Jones has been able to pursue interests in both European history and medicine as she builds a foundation for her career.
Professor Stephanie Sandberg and Nolan Zunk ’22 co-directed “Intimate Violence,” which will be screened at Hull’s Drive-in to raise money for Project Horizon.
Forty incoming first-year students participated in this year’s virtual Advanced Immersion and Mentoring (AIM) Scholars Summer Program, giving them an auspicious start to their W&L careers and a chance to help their peers this fall.
Studying philosophy and Arabic, traveling to Morocco and Beirut, and working with Professor Anthony Edwards to translate a Beiruti book have helped Tanner Hall '21 understand and appreciate other cultures.
When her summer research trip to Nepal was canceled because of COVID-19, Danika Brockman went to work for the Rockbridge Area Relief Association, where she helps with the food pantry.
The ESOL program at W&L, founded in 2001 to facilitate communication in the local community, now serves dozens of non-native English speakers each year with teaching, tutoring, translation and interpretation services.
Avalon Pernell, a rising sophomore from Alabama, appeared on a “College Roundtable” segment that featured college journalists interviewing the mayor of Pittsburgh.
At W&L, Eric Herrera did field work in Ghana, created a biotech startup, and discovered the original location of the Alamo.
Amid the COVID-19 outbreak, some Washington and Lee University journalism students learned that the news stops for nothing — not even a global pandemic. 
Students enrolled in BUS 399 Entrepreneurship presented their plans to a panel of 16 alumni judges who have worked as entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, private equity experts, lawyers, and angel investors.
Washington and Lee University's Office of Community-Based Learning has partnered with Lexington on projects that provide real-world learning experiences for students while also advancing the city's goals.
Six students from Washington and Lee University participated in The Virginia Foundation for Independent Colleges’ 21st annual statewide collegiate Wells Fargo Ethics Bowl in February.
Two W&L students dramatically upgraded security preparations for the biggest Mock Con yet.
A class in Denmark, an internship in India and lots of eye-opening experiences in the Lexington community have encouraged Amanda Dorsey '21 to advocate for inclusion in the public health field.
As director of communications for Mock Con 2020, Annie Lentz '20 applies her love of mass communications and politics to promote and protect a 112-year-old legacy.
Jackson Roberts ’19, Ryann Carpenter ’20 and biology professors Sarah Blyth and Natalia Toporikova co-authored a paper published in the Journal of Endocrine Research.
Mock Con Political Chair John Harashinski '20 hopes to carry on the event's legacy of accurate predictions using lessons from courses in political analysis and leadership.
An all-student team has created a versatile app for Mock Con 2020, bringing ticketing, program information and image sharing onto attendees’ phones and eliminating thousands of pages of printed material.
As director of operations for Mock Con 2020, Kylie Piotte '21 puts her event-planning skills to the test and finds her fit at W&L.
Whether he's on the football field or in the Mock Con war room, Kyle Perel '20 never forgets about the importance of teamwork and adaptable leadership.
Want to work for the U.S. Congress? Judging by past successes, earning a degree from Washington and Lee University is a pretty good start.
Mock Con 2020 Financial Chair Elizabeth Thompson '20 works with the rest of the Financial Team to raise and manage significant sums for a successful event.
Luke Basham '20 parlays a passion for politics into the challenging role of Democratic Party analyst for Mock Con 2020.
How Mock Con General Secretary Layne Smith '20 stays sane under the pressure of academics, Mock Con 2020 and acting as head hearing advisor for the W&L Honor System.
As general chair for Mock Con 2020, Jimmy Fleck '20 uses his political knowledge and business skills to lead a team of stand-out students toward a historic moment.
Working with Campus Kitchen at Washington and Lee has made Hannah Witherell '20 determined to continue helping others after she leaves W&L.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Experiential Learning archive.