Washington and Lee’s chapter of Remote Area Medical takes students to remote rural areas to provide medical services and gain valuable practical experience along the way.
Keuhner helped establish a memorial at Jordan’s Point dedicated to veterans killed in the line of duty and their families.
Washington and Lee’s Interfraternity Council, National Panhellenic Conference and National Pan-Hellenic Council focus on community-building, education and fundraising throughout the year.
Washington and Lee students are making a dynamic impact in the community through National Pan-Hellenic Council organizations.
Washington and Lee students gain new perspectives after internships through the Shepherd Program.
The donation will support the Campus Kitchen Backpack Program.
Washington and Lee’s Class of 2023 includes nine recipients of the Certificate of International Immersion awarded by W&L’s Center for International Education.
Washington and Lee seniors David Onyejekwe ’23, Jake McCabe ’23 and Bailey Keel ’23 have created lasting connections with the local community as volunteer coaches for Lex Lax youth lacrosse.
Students, faculty and staff are encouraged to sell unwanted items and donate any unsold items to benefit local nonprofit organizations. 
Ryan Brink serves as Campus Kitchen coordinator.
Alumni and friends of the Bonner Program are invited to a reception in Mattingly House during Young Alumni Weekend.
Programa SOL, a three-week program for local bilingual youth, focused on language and literacy development, swimming lessons, active games and visits with community partners.
The donation will support the Campus Kitchen Backpack Program.
Washington and Lee athletic teams partnered with Boxerwood’s COREworks program on community projects to offset carbon emissions in Rockbridge County.
Between the classroom and her community volunteer work, Katherine Ho '23 has built a W&L experience that is already paying off in the career world.
The W&L campus is buzzing with life again as students arrive for athletic practice, Pre-Orientation trips and other adventures to usher in Fall Term.
Community-based learning is an educational approach that integrates learning and mentorship with community engagement.
Two new first-year cohorts, #Hungerfighters and Good Nabors, educate first-year students about the Shepherd Program, introduce them to service learning, help them make friends and set them up for further involvement in the program.
At W&L, Gareth Minson '20 has been able to forge his own educational path at the intersection of political philosophy, education policy and women, gender and sexuality studies.
Amid a national shortage of PPE, W&L employees put the IQ Center’s 3D printers to work making face shields and mask strap holders for local health care workers.
Nominations for W&L’s LEAD Banquet Awards allow any member of the university community to recognize a student or group’s outstanding contributions in one or more of 23 areas.
Working with Campus Kitchen at Washington and Lee has made Hannah Witherell '20 determined to continue helping others after she leaves W&L.
Senior Laura Calhoun looks back at her W&L experience and celebrates the community she's built here. 
Through coursework and connections, Hannah Archer '20 helped to create a school food service program to ensure that local children have enough to eat during the summer. 
At W&L, sustainability starts with a seed and blossoms into sea change. Take a peek inside our gardening and composting effort to see how it's impacting our community — and the future.
Washington Break at W&L is about exploration, whether that discovery involves Texas mountaintops, Japanese culture or career opportunities in New York.
Proceeds will support CKWL's Backpack Program, a hunger-fighting project that began in 2009.
Members of the W&L Outing Club spent a recent Saturday cleaning graffiti from rocks at Devil’s Marbleyard.
Ben Capouya '20 interviews Victoria Kumpuris Brown '98 about her career in food policy and health at the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
 The Bring Your Turkey to Work Day and the University Store’s food drive help provide Thanksgiving meals to the community.
Whether she's leading the Student Association for Black Unity, acting in a play or volunteering in the community as a Bonner Scholar, Sasha Edwards '20 is ever mindful that education can happen anywhere.
Blue Ridge Autism and Achievement Center’s Lexington branch recently held a grand opening celebration for a nature trail built by Washington and Lee University engineering students through a community partnership.
A philanthropic twist on AirBnB, W&L's Habitat Hotel raises thousands for much-needed affordable housing in Rockbridge.
W&L Campus Kitchen summer interns practice leadership development through community service. 
Washington Break gave students a chance for learning and personal development, as well as all-out fun.
A team of Washington and Lee engineering majors is designing and building a walking trail for children served by Blue Ridge Autism and Achievement Center’s Lexington location. 
The Campus Kitchen Leadership Team at Washington and Lee University presents its annual “Turkeypalooza” from Nov. 9-16.  
Brett Becker '18 and the W&L Pre-Dental Club teamed up with Rockbridge Area Health Center to distribute dental supplies to more than 700 local children.
Whether they were doing service work in Birmingham, touring firms in NYC, or climbing an ice-encrusted mountain in New Hampshire, Washington and Lee students made the most of Washington Break.
Tammi M. Hellwig has been named the director of Community-Based Learning at Washington and Lee University. W&L Provost Marc Conner announced the appointment, which is effective July 1.
W&L junior Angel Vela de la Garza Evia has won a $10,000 Davis Projects for Peace grant.
Ten years and nearly 263,000 meals after Ingrid Easton Wilson '06 founded  the Campus Kitchen at Washington and Lee, the program is still going strong.
Bonner Scholar Peyton Powers helps to plan the Fall Bonner Congress Meeting, taking place on W&L's campus Oct. 14-16.
American students traveled abroad with international students for summer projects they created together. .
Shepherd Intern Hannah Falchuk '18 works for the Bowery Residents' Committee in New York City.
Emmanuel Abebrese is a biochemistry major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Woodbridge, Va. A member of the Class of 2015, he is a member of the Student Association for International Learning, the African Students Association and the Beta Beta Beta biology honor society. He is also the founder of Citadel Foundation for Kids, a nonprofit organization in Ghana and the U.S. that provides children with mentors, resources and training to prepare them for future global leadership and focuses on alleviating child poverty worldwide.
"The relationships I have made and strengthened while volunteering over the course of my time in Lexington are more important to me than I could have imagined."
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Kayla Sylvester '17 Volunteers with a Local Literacy Council in South Dakota.
Accounting and Business Administration major lends her planning skills to the annual Souper Bowl benefit for the Campus Kitchen Backpack Program.
A group of Washington and Lee students spent February break constructing a bio-sand water filter for a school in Belmopan, Belize.
Crisis and charity bond Bonner Students during Washington Break.
Sophomore Brett Becker has started the Pre-dental Club for Washington and Lee students who want to study dentistry and to volunteer in the community.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Community Service archive.