Washington and Lee students gain new perspectives after internships through the Shepherd Program.
SHECP internships provide work experiences that are impactful for both the students and the communities they serve.
Kiera Stankewich ’25 tackled food justice in Louisville, Kentucky this summer through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty.
Kristina Ayers '25 is interning at a medical clinic for the homeless in Washington, D.C. through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty.
Eric Bazile '25 is interning with the Austin Greater Chamber of Commerce through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty (SHECP).
Nick Watson '22 is spending the summer working on housing issues as part of his Shepherd internship with the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity in Vermont.
Molly Mann '20 combined fitness and service learning during her Shepherd summer internship at Back on My Feet in Washington, D.C.
2Ls Bethny Barrett and Lauren Bennett spent their 1L summers in public interest positions funded by the Shepherd Program.
Jackson Roberts '19 had the opportunity to intern in Quito, Ecuador, exploring local customs, becoming part of the community, and learning the ins and outs of healthcare.
After spending Spring Term in Ethiopia, Jack Kaelin '19 is in Austin, Texas, helping refugees find a place to call home. 
W&L and VMI will host the 2017 Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty Frueauff Closing Conference and Symposium July 30 and 31.
Shepherd Intern Zach Taylor explores a holistic approach to middle school education at the Washington Jesuit Academy.
English major Kassie Scott '18 interns for an NGO focused on human rights and gender equality in Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
Sage Timberline is a biochemistry major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Richmond, Va. A member of the Class of 2015, she interned at the Downtown Health Plaza in Winston-Salem, N.C.
Shepherd Intern at Bridges, St. Paul's School in Baltimore.
Emma Busse is a sociology and economics major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Charleston, W.Va. A member of the Class of 2015, she spent a summer in Camden, N.J., as a Shepherd Intern with the Cooper's Ferry Partnership, development firm that uses a multi-faceted approach to make Camden a better place to live, work, and invest.
Shepherd Intern at Tapestri, Inc. in Atlanta.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Shepherd Alliance Internship archive.