Scott’s passion for the environment carries over from the classroom to opportunities on campus and beyond.
The opportunity to take a wide variety of classes has expanded Kramer's horizons.
With medical school on the horizon, Tyler embraces many opportunities such as research fellowship, studying abroad and sorority life.
A global politics and economics double major, Dantini found his ‘home’ on campus with the University Singers.
The premiere event will be followed by a student-led discussion about their experiences and the creative journey in producing the films.
Washington and Lee students explored the world this summer thanks to grant funding opportunities through the Center for International Education.
W&L students in this Spring Term’s “Swedish Theater” course were immersed in culture during their three weeks in Stockholm, Sweden.
Washington and Lee’s Class of 2023 includes nine recipients of the Certificate of International Immersion awarded by W&L’s Center for International Education.
All funds will support W&L students with Professor George Bent’s digital humanities project “Florence As It Was.”
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate student recipients.
Lily Mott '23 is interning this summer at News Over Audio in Dublin, Ireland, where she is finding fulfillment at the intersection of politics and journalism.
Students in Elliott King’s Spring Term class, “Modern Art in Barcelona,” are being steeped in Spanish art, history and architecture during an unforgettable educational trip to Barcelona and Madrid.
Students in Michael and Lena Hill’s Spring Term course are discovering what inspired writers of past generations.
Lauren Hoaglund '22 has parlayed her passion for medieval and Renaissance history, literature, classics and theater into a busy but rewarding four years at W&L.
Paige Anderson '22 is spending the summer recording an album of classical violin music in memory of her grandmother.
The award covers full tuition and includes a $10,000 stipend toward living expenses.
Her project, “Age and Growth of Fan Mussel (Pinna nobilis) in Mar Menor,” will take her to Calpe, in Spain this fall.
Rafay Hassan '22 was looking for a liberal arts university that would give him individualized attention and put his critical thinking skills to the test. He found that and more at W&L. 
James Ricks ’21 plans to work this summer with the Oda Foundation in Nepal.
Julienne de Vastey '23 and Jamal Magoti '23 have won a Davis Projects for Peace grant for their project "Tokomeza Kata Kimeo."
Cindy Irby, assistant director of international education and study abroad advisor at W&L, says her experience as a member of Up with People — which included participation in a Super Bowl halftime show — helps to inspire her as she makes study abroad opportunities possible for W&L students.
At the start of the academic year, 17 first-year international students began their W&L experience in Scotland. Today, they are taking courses in Lexington as a unique group of friends.
Zach Baldridge ’22, Bri Mondesir ’22 and Blake Sanchez ’23 received the prestigious award.
Studying philosophy and Arabic, traveling to Morocco and Beirut, and working with Professor Anthony Edwards to translate a Beiruti book have helped Tanner Hall '21 understand and appreciate other cultures.
Cage Tevis ’21, Bo Garfinkel ’21, Jeremiah Kohl ’22, Collin Frazey ’23 and Tanajia Moye-Green ’23 will study abroad.
Julia Hernandez took a Spring Term class in Ghana and studied abroad in France and Morocco, proving that W&L is a gateway to opportunities all over the globe.
At W&L, Katherine Ingram '20 found a research interest—and a future profession—where environmental studies meets economics.
When Kara Lough '20 found W&L, she found a supportive environment that allowed her to lead a magazine, study in Italy, work as a photographer and plan a career.
Internship and Study Semester in Asia-Pacific student Sam Smiley '21 reminisces about his stay in Singapore, which was cut short because of COVID-19.
Temi Adeyanju '21 describes her many adventures in Australia during her Internship and Study Semester in Asia-Pacific.
Annie Echols '21 explores some surprising similarities between Sydney and Lexington while in Australia for the Internship and Study Semester in Asia Pacific program.
Foster Friedman '21 discusses the highlights of his experience with the Internship and Study Semester in Asia Pacific Program.
 In 2021, students will have the opportunity to study in Ghana for both Winter and Spring Terms.
Spending the summer in Nicoya, Costa Rica, helped Montgomery Owen '21 to strengthen his Spanish language skills.
Sydney Lee '21 spent summer 2019 studying Spanish and falling in love with the town of Nicoya, Costa Rica.
The Cape Town Program, a partnership between the Williams School and the Shepherd Program, provides students with an interdisciplinary experience they'll never forget.
Wenle Mu '20 describes a typical week of living in Australia as a student in the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program.
With the support of faculty and fellow students, Charlotte Cook '19 acted in seven theater productions at W&L while juggling a major, two minors and other extracurricular activities.
Zander Kieu highlights his first three months in Sydney as part of the Sydney Study Abroad and Internship Program.
Victoria Seymour '21 reflects on her time in Australia as part of the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program.
Her scholarship will fund a nine- to 12-month study of small-scale cultural heritage looting operations in the Golden Triangle of India.
Claire Mackin '20 shares her experiences in Sydney as part of the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program.
As part of the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program, Mariam Samuel '20 is taking courses at the University of Sydney and interning at Wheatley Wealth Management.
After spending the summer teaching and exploring in Costa Rica, Taylor Casey '20 can't wait to return.
Washington Term, study abroad opportunities and internships—including one with the Philadelphia Eagles—have helped to shape Jason Renner's plans for the future.
Megan Engeland '19 spent her summer in a research laboratory in the psychology department at the University of Sydney in Australia.
Caroline Caruso '21 loved Costa Rica so much that she wants to open a medical practice there after graduate school. 
Daniel Rhoades '19 spent the summer immersed in the language and culture of Costa Rica.
Jackson Ellis '19 is working with a German consulting agency to help international student-athletes navigate the college application process.
Danielle Spickard '19 is taking full advantage of what the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program has to offer.
Elizabeth McDonald heads to Japan, Emily Austin to Indonesia and Riley Ries to Kyrgyzstan.
While studying in Sydney, Bradley Callaham '19 interns at LINK, the world’s largest international business brokerage firm.
Senior Stephanie Williams '18 says W&L's First-Generation Low-Income Partnership (FLIP) gave her support to overcome obstacles and mentor other low-income students.
Spring Term allows W&L students to focus intensely on one topic for four weeks, or to create an experience that is unique to their educational path.
Soon Ho spends his days in Australia studying at the University of Sydney and interning at Greencross Limited, Australia's largest pet care company.
A group of W&L Law students traveled to Germany over spring break for an intensive week-long exploration of German law and legal culture.
Teresa Aires Rodrigues is spending her winter term in Sydney, Australia.
The program helps American students secure three-month long business internships in Germany.
Kat Oakley '19 has spent a lot of time contemplating the idea of "place" - both in Lexington and across the world. 
Harleigh Bean ’18 studied in Paris, spent a summer at one of Middlebury's competitive language schools and attended the Public Policy and International Affairs Junior Summer Institute at Princeton University.
The best place to research your thesis? Some would say the library, but for Jacqueline Moruzzi '18 that place is the Cambridge University's Medieval Studies Summer Program.
Lee Sommerfeldt '18 found a home away from home in a honky-tonk in the heart of Tokyo.
Sierra Noland studied Hindi in Jaipur, India while Tara Cooper studied Japanese in Hikone, Japan.
Jake Roberts' study abroad trip started with an earthquake, and ended with him finding a passion for public health.
Sierra Noland and Tara Cooper received Critical Language Scholarships sponsored by the U.S. Department of State.
Alora Martin, who is participating in an intensive language program for Arabic in Amman, Jordan, sees studying abroad as a necessary part of a modern education.
Ben Fleenor ’19, Mohini Tangri ’19 and Kenta Sayama ’19 talk about the opportunities that await them as they look forward to a year at Oxford.
"Good and bad things will happen when you take risks and leave what's comfortable, but I promise it's worth it."
Connor Chess '17 spends a summer studying, working and teaching in Costa Rica, thanks to a Wooley Fellowship.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Study Abroad archive.