Washington and Lee's Leading Edge program welcomed the Class of 2027 to campus with dynamic programs designed to build community.
The Nuestro Hogar Latino theme house's new location accommodates more students and offers expanded space for programming.
The recent renovation of the second and third floors of Elrod Commons has provided staff and students with new and improved workspaces.
Washington and Lee students can now explore the Headspace app’s mental health and wellness features thanks to the generous support of alumni Greg and Kelly Golub. 
After receiving a great deal of support from upperclassmen at Washington and Lee University, Hannah Puckett ’23 pays it forward by dedicating her time to mentoring and counseling first-year students.
In a special edition of Scene on Campus, we shine a light on our Dining Services staff and all the beautiful food they serve with love during the holiday season.
Against a national backdrop of mental health concerns, Washington and Lee's University Counseling Center recently rolled out new programs to increase the ways in which students can reach out for help. 
At W&L, student volunteers in the peer counseling program, Washingtonian Society and Active Minds supplement University Counseling Center services by offering a caring ear to fellow students.
W&L's students and visitors will find lots to explore in and around Lexington this year.
As we bid farewell (for now) to the Class of 2021, we look back at their very first days on the W&L campus.
A special dinner series at The Marketplace this academic year has featured menus created by Dining Services employees to pay homage to places they’ve lived or studied in culinary school.
Lucas Flood '21 fell for W&L when he saw it for the first time on a family road trip, and he's found it an ideal place to study history and German. 
W&L has allowed Christopher Watt '21 to meet other members of the community and find a future career where three of his passions converge.
The challenges of student life during the COVID-19 pandemic are pervasive, but students—and the W&L staff supporting them—are rising to the occasion.
Washington and Lee University’s Student Affairs staff worked tirelessly to support students through the COVID-19 pandemic and the move to virtual instruction.
Washington and Lee University matches incoming students to halls and roommates by hand to create communities in which students can thrive.
This year’s orientation for Residential Advisors and Community Assistants included a mock fire designed to show students how to quickly and safely escape a burning building.
The W&L Village PowerDown Challenge called for students to reduce electricity consumption for a month, and they came through with energy and creativity to win a grand prize that included a therapy dog visit. 
They call it Winter Wonderland, but it's more like a winter candyland — and it's one of the most popular W&L events of the year!
The house's new Bike Shop offers free and low-cost rentals, lessons on bike maintenance, and opportunities for exploring the outdoors on two wheels.
By the start of the 2018-19 academic year, the 1970s-era apartments will sport a fresh exterior look and extensively remodeled interiors.
Washington and Lee students are on the move thanks to a robust collection of club sports, intramurals and exercise classes.
"W&L manages to be a catalyst for adventure while still offering that 'welcome home' feeling."
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Residential Life archive.