"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join W&L faculty to discuss their teaching, research and passion projects.
The Harte Center for Teaching and Learning is bringing student voices to a new podcast designed to share perspectives on transitioning to college life.
Washington and Lee’s library staff share their recommendations for your next trip to the University Library.
With medical school on the horizon, Tyler embraces many opportunities such as research fellowship, studying abroad and sorority life.
“W&L After Class,” now entering its fifth season, invites listeners to join conversations with W&L’s expert faculty about their teaching, research and passion projects.
The 28th Mock Convention’s Presidential Gala on Nov. 12 offered the campus a glimpse of the upcoming excitement for the 2024 mock presidential convention.
Washington and Lee students explored the world this summer thanks to grant funding opportunities through the Center for International Education.
Matthew Loar serves as director of fellowships and student research.
Washington and Lee’s Class of 2023 includes nine recipients of the Certificate of International Immersion awarded by W&L’s Center for International Education.
Professors Nadia Ayoub and Kyle Friend, and students Jamal Magoti ’23, Maria Luzaran ’23, Cooper Lazo ’24 and Eman Muamar ’24 all contributed to the paper that appeared in the open science platform Frontiers.
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join a conversation with W&L’s expert faculty on their teaching, research interests and passion projects.
The DeLaney Center’s latest research project connects current students with a rich legacy.
Mock Convention made its Spring Kickoff event an informative preview of upcoming convention conversations.
Washington and Lee’s Philosophy Department will host a talk by Upol Ehsan ’13 on Monday, March 13 from 6-7:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
The monthly podcast explores Washington and Lee faculty's research, teaching and passion projects.
Center announces new personnel, supports research opportunities and introduces programs for the campus community.
Tom Marcais, senior technology integration specialist, will present this year's Nobel Prize for Physics on Wednesday, Oct. 26.
Bridget Osas ’25 is researching behavioral impacts on the development of metabolic syndromes like obesity.
After receiving a great deal of support from upperclassmen at Washington and Lee University, Hannah Puckett ’23 pays it forward by dedicating her time to mentoring and counseling first-year students.
Lauren Hoaglund '22 has parlayed her passion for medieval and Renaissance history, literature, classics and theater into a busy but rewarding four years at W&L.
Everything has fallen into place at W&L for Alankrit Shatadal '21, who complemented her academic experience with research, peer counseling and membership in University Singers. 
As part of a community-based learning course in collaboration with Rockbridge Regional Tourism and the Rockbridge Historical Society, Washington and Lee University students researched and mapped Black-owned businesses that thrived in Lexington during the Jim Crow era.
Rafay Hassan '22 was looking for a liberal arts university that would give him individualized attention and put his critical thinking skills to the test. He found that and more at W&L. 
Each scholar is awarded $7,500 to support undergraduate research in their junior or senior year.
Melissa Yorio '21 has received support from many corners during her college career, so when the pandemic broke out, she found a way to give back within her hometown community. 
Enuma Anekwe-Desince '22 has found her niche at Washington and Lee University through her involvement in the Advanced Immersion and Mentoring Program, leadership roles in student organizations, and work as a research assistant in the sociology and psychology departments.
Studying philosophy and Arabic, traveling to Morocco and Beirut, and working with Professor Anthony Edwards to translate a Beiruti book have helped Tanner Hall '21 understand and appreciate other cultures.
At W&L, Eric Herrera did field work in Ghana, created a biotech startup, and discovered the original location of the Alamo.
Working with Campus Kitchen at Washington and Lee has made Hannah Witherell '20 determined to continue helping others after she leaves W&L.
This summer, Ginny Johnson '20 served as a peer mentor to nine rising sophomores as part of the Keck Geology Consortium trip to Belize, where Professor Lisa Greer continued her research project into the staghorn coral population.
Working with ICU patients at Vanderbilt University Medical Center through the Allen Grant has reaffirmed neuroscience major Laney Smith's desire to become a surgeon.
Through coursework and connections, Hannah Archer '20 helped to create a school food service program to ensure that local children have enough to eat during the summer. 
Her scholarship will fund a nine- to 12-month study of small-scale cultural heritage looting operations in the Golden Triangle of India.
MaKayla Lorick '19 is collecting oral histories from African-American alumni, faculty and staff as part of a project that aims to include those missing perspectives in Washington and Lee University's history of desegregation and integration.
Emily Kendall '20L researched the impact of extractive mining practices on human rights and economic development.
Washington and Lee students utilize their summers through research, volunteer work and internship opportunities, both on campus and across the globe.
Emily Perszyk ’18 reflects on what W&L has to offer in the classroom and on the court — and how it led to her interest in the study of taste, smell and flavor.
As she prepares to work for the Equality of Opportunity Project, Amanda Wahlers '18 is grateful for the education, opportunities and research experience she has had in Lexington.
Andrew Mah ’18 has spent his undergraduate career studying the circadian rhythms of spiders.  
As a geology summer research assistant in Crete, Greece, no two days were the same for Chantal Iosso '20.
Over the summer, students worked with Professor Robert Humston to examine the potential effects of smallmouth bass on native brook trout populations in the Virginia watershed.
Yavuz Durmaz ’20 worked with Professor Kyle Friend to probe mRNA instability.
Soon Ho Kwon '17 and Claire Meyers '18 spent the summer looking at how Corporate Social Responsibility plays a role in the bottom line.
Zainab Abiza '19 spent the summer analyzing two Islamic State magazines in a timely project with Professor Seth Cantey.
Anukriti Shrestha '19 has found an intersection of mathematics, computer science and research — all in the heart of Lexington.
Twelve Class of 2021 students visited W&L for a five-week Advanced Research Cohort program that allowed them to dabble in STEM projects and establish quality relationships.
Josh Fox '19 has spent his summer conducting geology research on campus and in Crete, Greece, with Professor Jeff Rahl.
W&L senior Harrison Westgarth has been awarded a Fulbright grant to Brazil, where he will study the “Development of an Animal Model of Direct and Congenital Zika Virus Transmission.”
Chauncey Belknap, a law clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, is the subject of a two-year research project by law students Lizzy Williams '17L and Jess Winn '17L.
Geology professor Lisa Greer, who has been taking students to Belize since 2011 to monitor the health of coral reefs, said their research indicates that the latest El Niño, on top of global climate change, may be harming the Belize Barrier Reef.
The neuroscience major and philosophy minor will use her $500 research grant to fund her senior honors thesis.
12 Exceptional Students Experience a Unique Summer Program Aimed at Increasing Retention in STEM
Juniors Lizzy Stanton and Lenny Enkhbold use geo-spatial visualizations to explore new interpretations of 19th-century German literature.
Watch the Video.
Azmain Amin '17 and Mina Shnoudah '17 look to automate testing of web services.
Jamie Hayes '17, Alfred Rwagaju '18 and Rajwol Joshi '18 are applying electrical engineering to create a medical solution for affordable diagnoses.
Kate McCreary and Kara Farroni spend their summer researching the endangered Peaks of Otter salamander.
Araba Wubah '17 conducts immunology research in Ghana.
Psychology major Lainey Johnson combines research and service for the benefit of a local non-profit.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Research archive.