Kevin Batteh '95, '98L is W&L's first Bitcoin donor.
Dick Stuart '37 celebrated his 88-year relationship with W&L by making his leadership gift to the Annual Fund.
When Bette Lathrop named Washington and Lee as one of the beneficiaries of her charitable remainder trust, bridges were on her mind, and one in particular. 
Junie Bishop '41 created a fixed-term charitable trust 20 years ago that will make a significant difference at W&L in 2020.
For Su and Rob Minor '71, planned giving is not about the past; it’s about building a better future. 
Helen and Bob Cairns '57 created two gift annuities to express their love and appreciation for W&L.
Late professor emeritus Harry Pemberton is the first W&L faculty member to be recognized as an Honored Benefactor.
Ed Spencer ’53, who has made plans to support a scholarship fund at W&L, is still a cornerstone of the university 17 years after his retirement.
The Professor Sidney M.B. Coulling ’46 Scholarship Endowment.
Washington and Lee has received a $2.5 million gift from Hal F. and Barbra Buckner Higginbotham to endow the university librarian position.
When he arrived on campus in 1954, it would have been hard for Farris Hotchkiss ’58 to imagine celebrating his upcoming 60th reunion.
His generous gift will help deserving young scholars, who might come from less fortunate circumstances, be able to attend W&L.
The gift supports the education — both theoretical and practical — of budding journalists.
The scholarship honors his "father and mother who made a real sacrifice so that I might be able to go to W&L."
The environment at W&L was transformative in the sense that everything you did was governed by the Honor System. You were your own disciplinarian. I had never experienced anything like this, and it made an impact that stayed with me throughout my business and personal life. I attribute my success in business to this.
Dr. Robert (Bob) L. Holt '67 adeptly leveraged the IRA Charitable Rollover provision to establish an endowment on the occasion of his Class of 1967 50th Reunion that also honors two admired W&L mentors, the late Chemistry Professor Keith Shillington and History Professor and friend Ted DeLaney.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Planned Giving archive.