This year’s symposium will take place March 8-9 and address the nation’s opioid crisis and the ethical considerations it raises.
“W&L After Class,” now entering its fifth season, invites listeners to join conversations with W&L’s expert faculty about their teaching, research and passion projects.
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join conversations with W&L's expert faculty about their teaching, research and passion projects.
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join conversations with W&L's expert faculty about their teaching, research and passion projects.
This year’s symposium will take place March 3-4 and address corporate responsibility in times of armed conflict. 
The monthly podcast explores Washington and Lee faculty's research, teaching and passion projects.
This year’s symposium will address "The Civil War and the Ethics of Loyalty.”
W&L grads who came back for Young Alumni Weekend caught up with friends, visited favorite spots on campus, and reminisced about their time in Lexington.
When she isn't keeping the offices of Lifelong Learning and Institutional History humming, Emily King likes to spend time with her family, bake and collect more books than she will ever read.
The NSF only funds about 11,000 of the 40,000 proposals it receives annually for research, education and training projects. 
Religious Values and Public Policy:  Does the Separation of Church and State Also Require  Separating Religion from Politics?
Washington and Lee University School of Law will host the 2017 Law and Literature Seminar on Oct. 27-28.
This lecture is part of the Alumni College's summer program, "Camelot Reconsidered: The Presidency of John Fitzgerald Kennedy."
This lecture is part of the Alumni College's summer program, "Rembrandt and the Dutch Golden Age."
This lecture is part of the Alumni College's summer program, "The Ireland of Yeats and Joyce."
W&L music professor Tim Gaylard considers Leonard Bernstein's extraordinary music career as part of the annual Alumni College lecture series open to alumni and friends of Washington and Lee.
 Looking for older stories? See the complete Alumni College archive.