Your browser is not supported for this experience.We recommend using Chrome, Firefox, Edge, or Safari.


The Shenandoah Valley begins at the top of Virginia via I-81 and is approximately 140 miles long with the Blue Ridge to the east and the Alleghenies to the west ending in Rockbridge County. Before the rest of the continent was explored, the Shenandoah Valley was considered the American frontier. Many years later, the region would play a crucial role in the American Civil War. The turmoil and triumphs of the region’s rich history have been preserved in many museums and sites all across the Shenandoah Valley. It can also be seen in the character and architecture of the cities and towns. The unique history of the Shenandoah Valley makes it the authentic and amazing place that it is today.
The Shenandoah Valley will forever be associated with Shenandoah National Park. Opened in 1935, the park encompasses nearly 200,000 acres along the Blue Ridge Mountains. The park can be accessed through the quaint Shenandoah Valley towns of Waynesboro, Luray and Front Royal. Skyline Drive and the Blue Ridge Parkway are recognized as two of the most popular scenic drives in America. They both offer stunning views and a peaceful experience, as commercial trucks are not allowed on either road. While they are certainly the most famous byways in the Shenandoah Valley, they are certainly not the only scenic drives. Quiet back roads meander throughout the valley connecting towns, farms, wineries and more. Scenic drives through the Shenandoah Valley are very popular with bikers and motorcyclists.
Throughout the Valley, there are hiking trails that range from an easy stroll in the woods to multi-day excursions. The famous Appalachian Trail winds through the region, including a long stretch within Shenandoah National Park. There are also plenty of options to float through the Shenandoah Valley. Canoes and kayaks offer a refreshing way to experience the beauty of the valley and possibly spot local wildlife on the James, Maury, Middle and Shenandoah Rivers, just to name a few.
Nestled in the heart of the serene and breathtaking Shenandoah Valley, Harrisonburg offers visitors a rich historical and cultural…
Lexington is located in the center of Rockbridge County in the Shenandoah Valley region of Virginia. It is home to Virginia…
Luray in Page County is located in the Shenandoah Valley region and situated between the Blue Ridge Mountains on the east and the…
Staunton is conveniently located in the heart of Virginia’s Shenandoah Valley. Named “One of a Dozen Distinctive…
When mentioning Shenandoah National Park, visitors often get that faraway look in their eye, fondly…
Virginia's eight caverns are awe-inspiring attractions found in the Southwest and Shenandoah…
An agricultural hub, the Shenandoah Valley is the best place for authentic farm-to-table culinary experiences.
Cradled by the Blue Ridge and the Allegheny Mountains, Virginia’s 140-mile Shenandoah Valley is laced with some of the most…
Get closer to nature and build family bonds with a visit to Shenandoah County. Attractions here are are guaranteed to bring smiles…
Follow your WanderLove from Harrisonburg to Charlottesville for a scenic adventure through the Blue Ridge Mountains. We cover a…
We may be biased, but we think Virginia’s parks are some of the most awe-inspiring in the entire country. One of our favorites?…
Journey through Virginia’s magnificent Shenandoah Valley by horseback, kayak, and on foot during this 3 day getaway in the…
The Shenandoah Valley is a paradise for the Outdoor Lover. Secluded trails, scenic byways, and picturesque blueways offer a…
From fine vintage sips to the best in Virginia's fall foliage, this getaway will be one for the memory books.
Available in all seasons, cabins can accommodate girlfriend getaways, family reunions and motorcoach groups. From riverside to…
As your taste buds will discover, "farm-to-table" is more than a culinary buzzword in Lexington. Dozens of small farms…
Isn’t it time for a getaway? Recharge all your senses with a relaxing escape to the Shenandoah Valley’s Rockingham…
This exciting getaway for families includes hands-on exploration at a children's museum, fresh air and mountain views, fun on…
There are so many ways to have fun in the Natural Bridge area. Getaway guilt-free this fall as you visit the Natural Bridge, a…
Easy to get to, hard to forget.  There are so many ways to have fun in the Shenandoah Valley and Blue Ridge Mountains when…
The Maury River is a summer playground for locals and visitors alike. From sunbathing on the rocks to fly-fishing with a guide to…
Fields of Gold is a regional agritourism program designed to invite visitors to experience Shenandoah Valley’s agritourism…
Located in the heart of the Shenandoah Valley, Shenandoah County is home to breath-taking scenery, a vast array of outdoor…
When you getaway to Natural Bridge, you’re treated to an array of outdoor opportunities, history, and old school family fun.


901 E. Cary St.
Suite 900
Richmond, VA 23219
© 2024 Virginia Tourism Corporation
This site uses cookies to enhance the user experience and measure marketing activities. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. To find out more, please see our Privacy Policy.