Shenandoah Beerwerks Trail was recognized as the Best Beer/Wine/Spirits Trail in this year’s Best of the Blue Ridge Awards.
Lexington and Rockbridge Area Tourism received a $10,000 grant to promote its Wanderlove: Rocking Rockbridge Summer Six. The Tourism office partnered with Glen Maury Park and Balloons Over Rockbridge […]
Rockbridge Vineyard & Brewery is celebrating a highly decorated spring: two gold medals in the Virginia Governor’s Cup (one landing in the Governor’s Cup Case), and Shepherd Rouse named Grower of the […]
The Rockbridge area is celebrating the passage of legislation designating the remaining portion of the Maury River as a Virginia Scenic River, signed into law April 11, 2022. Effective July 1, 2022, […]
Once again Rockbridge Regional Tourism Board is pleased to offer a sponsorship opportunity for local tourism events in Lexington, Buena Vista, and Rockbridge County.
The Rockbridge Regional Tourism Board has awarded more than $9,500 to local event planners in phase two of their event sponsorship program.
The Rockbridge Regional Tourism Board is ready to approve a second round of local tourism event sponsorships.
The Rockbridge Regional Tourism Board has awarded more than $8,000 to local event planners in phase one of their event sponsorship program, an initiative approved in March 2021 to assist with COVID […]
Natural Bridge State Park and Jenny Elmes of full circle catering have been recognized for their environmental stewardship by the Virginia Green Travel Alliance.
Natural Bridge State Park has received International Dark Sky Park status by the International Dark Sky Association.
The 38th annual NTTW, taking place May 2-8, recognizes the Power of Travel and the critical role our industry will play in bringing back our vibrant communities, restoring the economy, rebuilding our […]
The Rockbridge Regional Tourism Board approved a sponsorship initiative allocating funds to support local events.
Rockbridge Vineyard & Brewery and Great Valley Farm Brewery & Winery were together awarded nine medals during the 2021 Virginia Governor’s Cup wine competition, noted as one of the most stringent in […]
The Virginia Tourism Corporation announced today that Natural Bridge State Park will be featured on the cover of the 2021 Virginia Travel Guide.
One of the 90 grants submitted for Virginia Tourism Corporation's WanderLOVE Recovery Grant, Lexington & Rockbridge Area Tourism received $10,000 for its “Small Towns, Big Backyard” road trips […]
Hospitality businesses in Lexington, Buena Vista, and Rockbridge County are pledging to safeguard their employees and patrons against novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by signing on to a hospitality […]
Lexington, Virginia is a contender in the 2019 Top Adventure Town Contest by Blue Ridge Outdoors Magazine and presented by Sweetwater Brewing.
Two Rockbridge County destinations have been voted among the top five in their respective categories in a recent Blue Ridge Country reader poll.
Thank you for your interest in the Lexington and Rockbridge area. Our goal is to assist travel journalists and facilitate any necessary visit to encompass the points of interests, attractions and […]
The Lexington and Rockbridge Area Tourism Development office would be glad to help you develop your story. Here are a few ideas to get you started.
Natural Bridge is closer to becoming a state park. Governor Terry McAuliffe accepted the deed to the property Monday afternoon. This very unique bridge has been owned by the Indians, Thomas Jefferson […]
Lexington, Va. - home to Virginia Military Institute and Washington & Lee University made the list in good company with four other Virginia college towns - Charlottesville, Fredericksburg […]
Lexington, Va., located at the intersection of historic U.S. Route 11 and U.S. Route 60 as well as Interstates 64 and 81, has been named to Smithsonian magazine's list of "The 20 Best Small Towns to […]