The Lexington and Rockbridge Area Tourism Development office is committed to protecting your privacy online. We may use the information provided by you voluntarily to contact you regarding promotional updates, deals and special events, new additions to our website and/or your website experience.


	You may use 
	LexingtonVirginia.com, our digital newsletters and other forms of digital-based communications, for example, our social networks, to learn about Lexington and Rockbridge Area Tourism Development attractions and events without disclosing any personal information beyond what you provided when requesting authorized publications, both digital or printed. We may ask you to provide us with personal information, for example, if you wish to receive email newsletters, a printed vacation guide, or enter promotional contests or sweepstakes. Information that may be requested by Lexington and Rockbridge Area Tourism Development may include, but is not limited to: contact information, such as name, address, email address, and telephone number; demographic information, such as household information, age group, etc. and information about your travel interests and what brought you to the website.


	All of our email newsletters include links in the footer of the email for managing all aspects of your subscription, including the ability to unsubscribe from such communications. Additionally, we update our email database periodically to ensure that only those who want to be subscribers are subscribers.


	Some of the content and information contained in this site is based on data submitted directly from local tourism promotion partners and business entities to Lexington and Rockbridge Area Tourism Development. While every effort is made to ensure the accuracy of this information, all content is subject to change without notice. Visitors are advised to contact individual businesses or organizations to obtain and/or confirm information prior to arrival. Links to third-party websites are provided as a convenience to website users; Lexington and Rockbridge Area Tourism Development does not control or endorse the content or make any claims to the accuracy of the content.

© Lexington & the Rockbridge Area Tourism Development, 2015. Unauthorized use and/or duplication of photographs or videos without express and written permission from this website’s author and/or owner is strictly prohibited and is protected under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA). 

	This web site uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. ("Google"). Google Analytics uses cookies to help the web site analyze how users use the site. The information generated by the cookie about your use of the web site (including your IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States. Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the web site, compiling reports on web site activity for web site operators and providing other services relating to web site activity and internet usage. Google may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google's behalf. Google offers opt-outs for analytics and for Google's remarketing services.


	Google's use of your IP address and other data held by Google is governed by your preferences within Google's product suite and Google's privacy policies. Visit Google's website for to view their privacy policies and opt-out options.