Welcome to the Office of the Provost at Washington and Lee University. The provost is the University's chief academic officer. Working with the academic deans and the faculty, the provost is responsible for the academic strategy and priorities for University's central mission of teaching and learning.
At W&L, the deans of the College, the Williams School of Commerce, Economics and Politics, and the Law School report to the Provost. Other direct reports to the provost are the associate provost, the assistant provost for institutional research and effectiveness, the registrar, the director of the University Library, the chief technology officer, the director of the Roger Mudd Center for Ethics, and the director of athletics. The provost oversees budget allocations to these units and works with them for planning, development, implementation, assessment and improvement of all academic programs, policies and supporting infrastructure including facilities and information technology. The provost is responsible for the recruiting and retaining of faculty and contributes to maintaining the infrastructure that assists the faculty in teaching and research.
In carrying out these responsibilities, the provost is assisted by the associate provost, manager of operations, and administrative assistant.
This website offers helpful information for faculty and for students and their families. The Office of the Provost is committed to providing academic experiences of the highest quality for our students and faculty.
 

NCFDD Membership


Washington and Lee University has joined NCFDD as an Institutional Member.								

New Faculty 2023-24


New faculty for the 2023-24 academic year by unit.								

Standard Course Load for Full-Time Tenure Stream Faculty


After a lengthy analytical review of W&L faculty course teaching loads across all academic divisions, including a comparison of teaching loads with those of elite peer institutions, W&L is revising its faculty course teaching load policy.								
Executive AssistantLinda Hurtlhurt@wlu.edu540-458-8530
Mailing Address Washington Hall 301 Washington and Lee University Lexington, VA 24450
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement