Do not use this form to report events presenting an immediate threat to health or safety. If you require emergency assistance, please dial 911.
**Information submitted through this form outside normal business hours may not be reviewed until the next business day. If this incident requires immediate assistance, please contact Public Safety by calling (540) 458-8999 or using the LiveSafe mobile app to make an anonymous report.**
 
Use this form to report incidents of harassment and/or discrimination on the basis of race, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, disability, age, veteran's status, or genetic information. This report form can be utilized by W&L community members wishing to file a University report on their own behalf or on another's behalf. Reports of sexual misconduct, including discrimination and harassment on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression can be submitted using the Sexual Misconduct Report Form.
 
Once this report is submitted it will be directed to the University’s Title IX Coordinator and the Dean for Inclusion and Engagement who will review the information provided. If a complainant's information is provided (complainant refers to the person who experienced alleged misconduct), the Title IX Coordinator will contact the complainant to offer resources and explain resolution options. This form does NOT automatically initiate formal disciplinary proceedings. Complainants are entitled to receive information, assistance and a broad range of support and remedial measures regardless of whether they choose to pursue University disciplinary resolution.
 
Washington and Lee will make reasonable efforts to protect the privacy and respect the wishes of complainants regarding the method of resolution.
 
You may file this report anonymously by leaving the name and contact information fields blank. If you file anonymously, however, you should understand that the University’s ability to respond to the allegations will be severely limited.

Washington and Lee strongly encourages all good-faith reports, and will respond to all reports based on the information that is shared. Washington and Lee wishes to support you and others affected by the contents of this report. The University understands, however, that there may be reasons why you might choose to withhold your identity or the identity of others involved. You may leave name and contact information blank if you wish to be anonymous.
Please list the individual(s) involved, including as many of the listed fields as you can provide. You may leave name and contact information blank if you wish to withhold the identity of others involved.

                                    Photos, video, email, and other supporting documents may be attached below. 5GB maximum total size.Attachments require time to upload, so please be patient after submitting this form. 
Email me a copy of this report