We at Monticello are deeply saddened by the passing of Dan Jordan, former President of the Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Described by current president Jane Kamensky as “the most consequential president on the mountaintop since Jefferson himself,” Monticello rose to international prominence during his quarter-century of leadership, first as director and then president, from 1985 to 2008.
During this special holiday season, Monticello’s online Shop has a gift for every age, style, and budget.
Recently, the Jefferson Library at Monticello received a gift from the Fontaine-Maury Society of a historic family bible belonging to James Maury (1746-1840), a childhood friend of Thomas Jefferson. 
We've all had moments where we lose track of what day it is. In the summer of 1776, Thomas Jefferson was no exception.
Today we at Thomas Jefferson’s Monticello are saddened to announce the recent passing of two former leaders, Brenton S. Halsey and Alice Warner Handy. Both were key players in the Foundation's and Monticello's history, contributing immensely to its stability and growth.
The Thomas Jefferson Foundation has restored portions of the Upper and Lower Grove to resemble Jefferson’s landscaping vision more closely.
For decades Mr. Rubera—who joined us in person as often as he could—and his cake were a mainstay at our Founder’s Day ceremony. It is with a heavy heart that this year will not hold the same tradition, as Mr. Rubera recently passed away.
If rain is good luck on your wedding day, what is three feet of snow on your honeymoon? A young Thomas and Martha Jefferson found out in January of 1772.
Thomas Jefferson and winter were not friends. Read a selection of quotations from Jefferson's letters and learn how this Frozen Founder felt about the winter months.
In 1762, Thomas Jefferson described Christmas as the “day of greatest mirth and jollity.” During this special holiday season, share the genius of Jefferson and Monticello with the people on your gift list! Monticello’s online Shop has a gift for every age, style, and budget.

				ADDRESS:
					931 Thomas Jefferson Parkway
					Charlottesville, VA 22902
				GENERAL INFORMATION: 
					(434) 984-9800