Abby retrieves her taxidermied beloved dog Broadway Baby much to the shock of the Abby Lee Dance Company. Meanwhile, Kelly secretly meets with the Dance Moms to plot her daughters' return. And as Maddie's star continues to fall, Nia's is on the rise.
                  

                    After Abby goes AWOL, Kelly takes the opportunity to sneak her kids back into the Abby Lee Dance Company. But now that Brooke is back, Payton's position on the team is up in the air. Meanwhile, Maddie helps a seriously ill girl's dream come true.
                  

                    After Tonya's "Used-Date Party" ends in a nasty brawl, the women try to pick up the shattered pieces of their friendship. Christy, Briana and Lila bring the girls together for a fun 5k race, only to insult Terra and Tonya, igniting another blow-up. Lila throws a cocktail party to make peace, but gets a frosty reception from everyone.
                  

                    Terra treats the gang to a fun filled weekend on Catalina Island, but the news that they'll be roughing it on this vacation turns half the group into extremely unhappy campers. The ladies' sense of adventure is soon revitalized by a thrilling day of zip lining, and they reward themselves with a fancy dinner in town. But their meal ends with a bitter taste, as Lila, fed up with the girls, viciously lashes out at each of them.
                  

                    Paid Programming.
                  

                    Paid Programming.
                  

                    Paid Programming.
                  

                    Paid Programming.
                  

                    Paid Programming.
                  

                    Paid Programming.
                  

                    A doctor dad puts the staff's patience to the test while a doting duo wants a vaginal birth. Then, proud parents have two boys at home and hope to get the girl they've always wanted.
                  

                    An unplanned pregnancy forces a young father to learn how to be a supportive spouse. And, with her second baby coming fast, one mom is forced to face a painful delivery without the help of an epidural.
                  

                    From a woman who wants everything she can get for pain to a woman who doesn't even want it mentioned, every Mom must make their own decision on how to manage their labor pains.
                  

                    A loving couple conquers the dreaded needle, only to face a gut-wrenching c-section. Two teenagers cram for the test of parenthood as they say goodbye to their childhood. And a first time mom tries to joke her way through delivery but it's her labor that gets the last laugh.
                  

                    There's never a dull moment in Labor and Delivery. From the patients that you treat to the problems that you greet. Witness the most terrifying complication in Labor and Delivery and one of the most unusual patients ever...a mom pregnant with twins from two different fathers.
                  

                    Their first delivery was disaster, but even a military tour in Iraq couldn't prepare him for this. She has three boys at home and is carrying her last baby, but her dreams of having a girl are replaced with hopes for her baby's survival. It's the first baby for these newlyweds and when her labor starts to drag on her mother has to step in.
                  

                    A self proclaimed type-A personality forgot her birth plan at home forcing her to rely on her primal instinct. A mom of four boys wants a girl and her parents are with her all the way but her delivery is way more than she bargained for. Finally, one surrogate mom gives the gift of life and helps a couple complete their journey to become parents.
                  

                    Two sportscasters are taking their first shot at parenthood, but a nagging condition threatens their chances for glory. Twins are in store for this happy couple but her previous delivery has everyone on the edge of their seats. And all pregnant women experience a little fear, but this first time mom takes being scared really seriously.
                  

                    It's the first week of the Child Genius competition, and twelve 9-12 year old Child Geniuses, with high achieving, driven parents in tow, prepare to battle it out in this week's rounds--math and memory--all hoping to win a one hundred thousand dollar college fund prize and the title of "Child Genius".
                  

                    The 11 children who survived the first round of elimination in the "Child Genius" competition return for week two, battling it out in this week's rounds of spelling and geography, with hopes of winning a hundred thousand dollar college fund prize and the title of "Child Genius."
                  

                    It's week three of the competition, and the remaining ten academic warriors must duke it out in this week's rounds, US History and Logic, to advance towards the 100K prize.
                  

                    It's week four of the Child Genius competition, and the remaining nine competitors must conquer this weeks' challenging topics, Current Events and Human Body, to stay in the game and advance towards the prize--a hundred thousand dollars and the title of "Child Genius."
                  

                    It's week five of the competition, the mid-point of this strenuous academic mountain climb, and these eight remaining geniuses prepare to do battle in this week's rounds--Literature & Fine Arts, and Vocabulary--in order to advance towards a hundred thousand dollar college fund.
                  

                    In week six of the competition, and the seven remaining competitors face two brain busting rounds of competition--Advanced Math and Speed Memory--after which only six will advance one step closer towards the finals.
                  

                    In week seven of the competition, the remaining six children muscle through two arduous rounds of competition--Advanced Spelling and World Landmarks--after which, only five will move on to the finals and compete for a hundred thousand dollar prize and the title of "Child Genius."
                  

                    In the eighth week of the competition, the remaining five geniuses must conquer two mind-bending rounds--Advanced Logic and World History--in order to advance one step closer to a hundred thousand dollar college fund.
                  

                    In the tenth and final week of the competition, the three brightest kids in the nation face off in an Academic Olympiad, a brain busting compilation of all previous round topics, after which, one child will win a hundred thousand dollar college fund, and be crowned "Child Genius."
                  
© 2024, A&E Television Networks, LLC. All Rights Reserved.