Staniar Gallery is pleased to introduce the exhibition To See Color First, the first comprehensive study of the watercolors of Louise Herreshoff Eaton, an artist who figures so prominently in Washington and Lee's permanent collection. Due to the coronavirus outbreak, it is impossible to display the artworks in the physical gallery space as planned. With the online exhibition (LINK HERE) and digital version of the exhibition catalogue, which you can access below, we are able to present a virtual experience of the Herreshoff project and provide an in-depth look at this remarkable artist. The paintings of Louise Herreshoff Eaton vibrate with color and brushwork emblematic of European Post-Impressionists and Fauves. Almost 200 of her portraits, landscapes and still life paintings are part of Washington and Lee's permanent art collection, a surprise find in a significant donation of ceramics that she and her husband, alumnus Euchlin Reeves '27, gave to the university in 1967. Co-curated by Patricia Hobbs, Senior Curator of Art for The Museums at Washington and Lee, and Tracy Bernabo, curator and registrar of Try-me Gallery (Richmond, VA), this exhibition highlights her bold and expressive watercolors in the first significant public display of Herreshoff's work outside of the University's Reeves Center since 1976.



9am-5pm during the academic year (unless otherwise noted for special exhibitions)
Special hours for Dalí exhibition: 10am-4pm Monday through Friday
Closed during the summer recess
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement