Most of our buildings on campus have controlled exterior door access, including residence halls and academic buildings. Washington and Lee issued University Cards must be "swiped" in the door reader to unlock the exterior door. Building permissions are managed by Public Safety.
Use your card to access your meal plans through Dining Services. Every undergraduate first-year student is required to have the Full Board meal plan. Dining Services personnel will be happy to answer questions about using your meal plan at the Marketplace, Cafe 77, E. Cafe, Fieldside, The Tea House or the Law School Brief Stop. For meal plan questions, email MealPlans@wlu.edu.
If you have a meal plan, you can also buy Food Flex Dollars, which are tax-exempt debits that can be used in the above locations. All dollars in this account must be used by the end of the academic year and cannot be refunded or transferred. Deposits must be put on the card in $25 increments. Meal Plan Flex Dollars that are part of a meal plan must be used by the end of each semester. Meal Plan Flex Dollars will NOT carry over from Fall to Winter/Spring.
Food items purchased in the Cafe Emporium, E. Cafe, Fieldside, The Tea House, and Law School Brief Stop can be paid for with Food Flex Dollars. Students with a meal plan have Meal Plan Flex Dollars included in the plan.  Only students having a meal plan can purchase food flex dollars.

Buy your textbooks or many other items from the University Store. Use your University Card to charge items (restrictions apply) or access your General Debit funds to make purchases.
Money can be placed in this account on your card to be used for microfilm, vending machines and the University Store (purchases under the $10 charging minimum).
microfilm: 10¢
General Debits are transferrable, refundable and carry over from one academic year to the next.
You can use your University Card to check out materials at both the Leyburn Library and Law Library.
Many organizations on campus use portable card readers to allow you to pay for a special one-time event that is taking place on campus. Carry your University Card everywhere you go. You never know when you may want to use it!
Students and Guests can make deposits to their University Card by visiting the W&L eCard web site using a credit card. VISA, MasterCard and Discover accepted. Other features of the site include checking your balance, viewing recent transactions and you can suspend your card.Deposits can also be added to your University Card and charged to your University account at the following locations: Marketplace, Law School Brief Stop, or the Business Office. The student should specify the account, Food Flex or General Debit, when making a deposit. Minimum deposit is $25. More funds can be deposited on the card as the balance runs low. Each time you use your University Card for a purchase, the register will display your remaining balance.
E-bill email notifications are sent on 15th of each month. Payment is due by the 10th of the following month. Outstanding balances are subject to a late fee.
Parents/Guardians who wish to limit or deny charging may do so by writing to the Business Office at BusinessOffice@wlu.edu
If you lose your card, contact the Card Office located in Student Affairs (Elrod Commons 356), ext. 8754. The record of your card will be changed in the system to prevent usage of charging, food flex, general debits, and access to doors. To gain access to your account again, you must have your card replaced. Student Affairs handles replacement of lost cards and will charge a $20 fee. Defective or damaged cards (due to normal wear and tear) will be replaced at no charge, if returned to the Student Affairs Office.If You Lost Your Card - Night/WeekendsIf you lost your card over the weekend or after Student Affairs office hours you can get a replacement card from the Public Safety office.  Public Safety will only reissue lost cards and the $20 replacement fee will be charged to your student account.  
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement