All full time Faculty and Staff will receive the University Card at the onset of their employment. After completion of the necessary paperwork through Human Resources and within a few days after your orientation class.
We ask that all new full time staff/faculty submit a photo for their university card.  The photo requirements are below. Once you have a photo please email it to Mariel Potter mpotter@wlu.edu.  
• Current color photo in focus, without any added effects• Neutral color and smooth background• Centered and front view of full face• Cropped from just above the top of the head to the collarbone• Proper lighting• Eyes open and visible, looking at the camera• Wear prescription glasses if you normally do so• Photo in jpg format
The University Card comes with several privileges:
Other uses of the University Card:
Deposits must be made in $25 increments and can be made online at the W&L eCard website, in the Business Office, and at the Marketplace. Deposits can be made by paying cash, writing a check, or pay with a debit or credit card through the eCard site.
The W&L eCard is an online tool to manage your University Card accounts. eCard lets you check recent card transactions, account balances, and allows you to use a credit card to add additional funds to your accounts. Acceptable credit cards are: VISA, MasterCard and Discover.
The University Card should be returned to Student Affairs, Public Safety, or Human Resources, upon separation from the University. Any funds on your debit privileges will be credited back to your account.
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement