Issued to all incoming students upon move in or matriculation, the University Card offers building and meal plan access and payment for University Store purchases, library services, and other purchases.
The University offers laundry and linen service and a microfridge rental program for students living on campus.
Information about student computing including system recommendations and requirements, the campus wireless network, computing and network use policies, software purchases, printers, computer labs, internet access, email and more.
The University provides services for copying, binding, laminating and more. Visit the Copying Services website for a full listing of offerings and how to use them.
The University makes no provisions for delivery of U.S. Postal Service mail to students. In order for on-campus residents to receive mail from the U.S. Postal Service, students must rent a box at the local Post Office. All packages from other carriers (UPS, FedEx, Airborne, etc.) will be delivered to the W&L Mail Services office.
All Washington and Lee students, faculty and staff members, subject to certain restrictions, are permitted to own and operate motor vehicles at the University during the academic year. Due to construction projects anticipated during the academic year, some parking areas may not be fully available. Full cooperation of all drivers will be important, and we ask that you not bring motor vehicles to the campus unless absolutely necessary.
Traveller offers students a safe ride within five miles of campus, seven nights a week from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m., using a combination of scheduled bus routes and dispatch services.
Students are permitted to ride the Maury Express bus, which serves Lexington, Buena Vista and Rockbridge County, free with their valid University ID. The Maury Express provides transportation to local shopping destinations including Kroger and Walmart. Transportation to nearby airports, train and bus stations in Roanoke, Charlottesville and Staunton can be arranged through the University's campus classified ads as well as outside transportation services.
Information on student banking in Lexington, including a list of local financial institutions.
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement