Dean Rodocker is the primary resource for new undergraduate students from the time they commit to attend W&L through the start of their sophomore year. Jason has worked at W&L for 10 years. He earned his Bachelor's degree from Hanover College, where he majored in Communication.  He received his Master of Science in Higher Education and Student Affairs and Juris Doctor at Indiana University in Bloomington, Indiana. His responsibilities as Dean include coordinating summer communication, Leading Edge pre-orientation trips, First-Year housing, orientation week, academic advising, peer tutoring, First-Year Leadership Council (FYLC), extended orientation, Phi Eta Sigma honor society and other services and support for First-Years in promoting the University mission.  Jason enjoys sports, the outdoors, and participating in a variety of athletic, recreational and community endeavors.
Ronda Bryant has joined the division of Student Affairs as Associate Dean of Students.  She brings 20 years of professional experience in a number of areas, including advising and academic support.  Prior to joining the staff at W&L, she served as the Associate Registrar at Ferrum College.Bryant completed her BA in sociology and MAEd in Counseling at Wake Forest University, and her PhD in Higher Education at the University of Virginia.
Dean McCoil serves as the primary resource for sophomores and supports all new transfer students. As a Class Dean, he strives to support students through various class-wide programs, one-on-one meetings, and by connecting students with resources that better allow them to excel throughout their collegiate experience. In addition to his role as the Dean of Sophomores, Dean McCoil also serves as the primary advisor to the Interfraternity Council (IFC) and National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC) here at W&L. He is originally from Charleston, SC, and graduated from the University of South Carolina with a Bachelor's degree in Public Health. He then went on to receive his Master's Degree in Higher Education Administration from the University of Michigan. 
Dean Hobbs serves as the primary resource for juniors and seniors and supports the Dean of Sophomores in their work with transfer students and the sophomore class. Dean Hobbs focuses on offering student support that will enhance the college experience; including classwide outreach and programs, one-on-one support, and resource referrals to aid students in making meaningful connections across campus. Dean Hobbs has been at W&L since 2012 and in addition to her work as a class dean, she mentors staff in the areas of Leadership Development and Greek Life, as well as serves as co-director to W&L's Quality Enhancement Plan [the AIM initiative]. She is originally from New Jersey, graduated from Elon University with a Bachelor of Arts in Strategic Communications and received her Masters of Education in Counseling Psychology at James Madison University.
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement