Sign up for General Alerts, learn more about how we communicate and respond in the event of minor or major emergencies, read a summary of the University's Emergency Management Plan and find out more about our Building Generals.
LiveSafe, a mobile-safety technology for the Washington and Lee University community, empowers students, University employees and campus visitors to take charge of their own safety and to look out for those around them. Download it today!
Important information about campus safety, including the Annual Campus Security Report, resources for Campus Security Authorities and our Anonymous Crime Reporting form.
All Washington and Lee students, faculty and staff members, subject to certain restrictions outlined below, are permitted to own and operate motor vehicles at the University during the academic year. Learn more about parking restrictions and vehicle registration.
Traveller serves the W&L community as a safe ride system. Traveller Dispatch deploys three vehicles that travel along a fixed route seven nights a week, 10pm-2am using a student dispatch system with a single call number (458-8900). In addition to this service, Traveller Express provides four 28 passenger mini-buses with an expanded coverage on Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays 10pm-2am.
Office location:
255 E. Denny CircleLexington, VA 24450Located just past Woods Creek Apartments on the right,before Woods Creek parking lot.
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement