sustainable
sus·​tain·​able | \ sə-ˈstā-nə-bəl
1 : capable of being maintained at length without interruption or weakening
The Office of Sustainability and Energy Education (OSEE) is proud to oversee W&L's environmental sustainability and campus carbon reduction efforts through engagement with all aspects of the campus built environment and operations, programming for students and staff, and campus/classroom connections. 
W&L is moving fast to meet our campus carbon neutrality goal, focusing on every aspect of our emissions footprint from energy and waste to purchasing and transportation. We're connecting curricular opportunities, campus programs, and our local community to build ideas that improve our environment right now, and build student outcomes that will support innovation into the future.
We are making great progress. And we are having a lot of fun. Join us!

W&L has a goal for campus carbon neutrality by 2050, but we are racing to get there a whole lot sooner. This means innovating how we source, use, and dispose of resources here on campus, designing our buildings, landscape and operations for the best environmental impact, and collaborating on progress with communities across campus and throughout Rockbridge County. Explore our progress and plans on the tabs below and in the most recent update of W&L's Climate Action Plan. Looking for something you don't see, or have a question/suggestion? Reach out to OSEE@wlu.edu. We'd love to hear from you.
Looking for a hands-on experience? You can literally dig in to sustainability on campus in our Campus Garden, roll up your sleeves and join the Compost Crew, or jump in as a volunteer for special sustainability initiatives and events. The Office of Sustainability and Energy Education (OSEE) also offers internships for those students interested in exploring in-depth projects connecting broad sustainability goals with direct campus action.
Curious but not ready to commit? OSEE offers a range of drop-in programs and events throughout the year. To keep up with events, join the mailing list!
For student-led action, check out the Student Environmental Action League, or SEAL. SEAL's mission is "to support environmental sustainability and conservation on campus and within the local community, increase student awareness of environmental issues as well as the ways to take action in our community and beyond through activism." Connect with them to find your place in student sustainability efforts. 
Are you a faculty member interested in building sustainability into your curricula? Visit the Faculty Resources page for project ideas. If you need a little funding to jump start a new class or research direction, consider applying for a Sustainability Integration Grant.
Representative governance on sustainability is provided by the University Sustainability Committee (USC), a body comprised of students, faculty and staff appointed to report to the University President on campus sustainability strategies and priorities. Visit the USC page for charge and membership. Have an issue you'd like to see the USC take-up? Reach out to your constituent member, or directly to the co-chairs.
The W&L community extends beyond our campus borders. We are proud to partner with the City of Lexington and Rockbridge Country and dozens of fantastic community organizations on initiatives that bring students and members of the broader community together for the common good.
Concepts are great, but sometimes we just need some basic directions! Here are some commonly sought details to get you started. Have a topic to add to the list? Send suggestions to OSEE. 
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement