Arthur Vorbrodt is a senior counsel in the Transactions Practice Group at Foley & Lardner in Dallas.
Noriya Shahadat is an associate in the Environmental and Mass Tort litigation group at McGuireWoods.
After graduation, Catalina Perez will head to Kennedys in Philadelphia, working in insurance coverage.
Colin Matthaei ‘24L spent the fall semester working in the Intellectual Property group at Nixon Peabody in Washington, D.C.
Following a clerkship and working as a prosecutor, Gretchen Panchik now practices in the areas of commercial litigation and insurance recovery.
Jose Lopez '24L describes his clinical experience and trip to Mexico City to advise migrants and refugees on the U.S. asylum process.
Patrick Bolling is a principal at Woods Rogers, advising a variety of employers in traditional labor and employment.
Lauren Griffin is an associate at Alston & Bird LLP, working in the Intellectual Property Litigation group based in the Charlotte, North Carolina office.
Ana Laura Coria split her time interning at a small legal firm in Verona, Italy and the U.S. Attorney’s Office of the Southern District of West Virginia.
Jared Hunter spent the summer as an associate at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP in New York City.
Mariya Denisenko worked as a summer associate at Sidley Austin’s Chicago office.
Carson Cox and Trey Smith, both new associates at Troutman Pepper in Richmond, are involved with a pro bono case concerning veteran's benefits.
Tom Boss worked as a summer associate with Williams & Connolly in Washington, D.C.
According to the report, 96.6 percent of the class of 2022 secured a job that either requires bar passage or for which a J.D. degree is an advantage.
After graduation, Francis Morency will join Shumaker, Loop & Kendrick LLP in the firm’s Tampa Office as an associate in the Bankruptcy practice group.
After graduation, Maddie Hawkins will be a corporate law associate with Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, LLP in New York. 
After graduation, Grant McClernon will join the Washington, D.C. office of Kirkland & Ellis, working with the healthcare transactions team of the Private Equity group.
Junior and Natey Kinzounza, who met at W&L Law, are both trial attorneys who honed their skills in moot court and summer externships.
After graduation, Sica Matsuda will be a litigation associate at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP in Washington, D.C and then a clerk for Judge Amy Berman Jackson at the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.
This fall, Joseph Aminov '23L researched cryptocurrency and other emerging financial technologies with the law firm Pryor Cashman.
Nam Kang enjoys solving the puzzles in compliance investigations as a member of the regulatory team at Troutman Pepper.
Rob Hawes spent his summer working for Jones Day in Frankfurt, Germany.
After graduation, Elena Schiefele will work for a law firm for a year and then clerk for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.
Sarah Childs will be working for Parr Brown Gee & Loveless in Salt Lake City, Utah, focusing on Intellectual Property. 
Trey Smith will be working at Troutman Pepper in Richmond, joining the firm’s White Collar Litigation and Investigations practice group.
Lauren Robertson will be working with the litigation group at Holland & Knight LLP in the firm’s Tampa office.
Mari Gonzalez will be working in the corporate department at Latham & Watkins’s D.C. office.
Rich Gilliland will be working for Waller Lansden Dortch & Davis, LLP in the firm’s Austin, TX office, focusing on litigation.
This summer, Kobie Crosley split his time interning with K&L Gates and the U.S. Steel Corporation in Pittsburgh, PA.
During his summer position in the DC office of Sheppard, Mullin, Richter and Hampton, Jake Walker '22 did it all, and came away with a job offer.
Kimberly Shi will be working for Clifford Chance LLP in the firm’s Washington, D.C. office, focusing on litigation and dispute resolution.
After graduation, Lara McMahon will work for Vinson & Elkins in the firm’s Washington, D.C. office and is planning on a career in government investigations and white collar defense.
After graduation, Junior Ndlovu is headed to the Allen law firm in Fredericksburg, VA to serve as a plaintiff's attorney.
After graduation, Natalia Homchick will be working at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP in New York City in the firm’s corporate department.
After graduation, Lizzie will be a litigation associate at Sullivan & Cromwell’s New York City Office.
After graduation, Jenna will for K&L Gates in the firms Washington, DC office.
After graduation, Carl will be working for Glankler Brown back home in Memphis, Tennessee.
After graduation, Tamra will be working in the litigation department of Miller & Martin’s Chattanooga office.
After graduation, McNair will work at the Washington, D.C. office of K&L Gates doing regulatory or enforcement work.
After graduation, Chi will be working for Kirkland and Ellis, in their Houston, TX office, doing primarily private equity and capital markets work.
After graduation, Clark will join the Charleston, WV office of Spilman, Thomas, and Battle, PLLC, doing corporate transactional and litigation defense work.
Lizzy Williams, a 3L from Austin, Texas, graduated from Smith College with a B.A. in History and a Certificate in International Relations. Lizzy is Co-President of the Women's Law Students Organization, a Burks Scholar, a Student Attorney for the Criminal Justice Clinic, a Lead Articles Editor on the German Law Journal, and a Research Assistant for Professor Todd Peppers.
Claire Leonard '16L is from Washington, D.C. and received her bachelor's degree from Vanderbilt University.
Caroline Colpoys '16L is from Dallas, TX and attended Rhodes College for her undergraduate degree.
Elaine McCafferty is from Newtown, Connecticut and graduated from the University of Connecticut with a BA in Psychology and Philosophy. Elaine is a Burks Scholar and Lead Articles Editor on the Washington and Lee Law Review.
Babatunde Cadmus '15L attended college at the University of Delaware and received a Bachelor's degree in Criminal Justice and Sociology.
Sarah Curry '15L graduated with honors from Johns Hopkins University in 2009 with a B.A. in International Relations and French.
Mac Mackie '15L is from Charlotte, N.C. originally and received his Bachelor's degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Meg Sawyer '15L is a third year law student from Columbia, Maryland.
Nigel Wheeler '15L is a third year student at Washington and Lee Law.