Four historical plaques relocated on campus are being installed in a new exhibit in University Chapel.
The iconic vines will receive significant pruning to ensure their overall health.
A new Williams School facility and renovations to University Chapel and Sydney Lewis Hall among several projects on the horizon.
The University Chapel and Galleries recently opened an exhibition titled "Setting the Stage: A Glimpse Inside 150 Years of the University Chapel Auditorium."
On Feb. 26, W&L’s museums and art galleries reopened to current W&L students, faculty and staff for in-person visitation.
Dr. Guelzo will deliver this year’s lecture, “The Mystery of Robert E. Lee,” virtually.
In a piece published in The Nation, Locy asserts that General Robert E. Lee does not deserve to be associated with W&L. 
Author and historian Ryan Cole will give a public lecture at W&L on March 23.
Museums at Washington and Lee will take part in Lexington's Museum Week and host Poinsettias at the Chapel during December.
Rainville's lecture is titled "At Home with the Presidents: An Ethno-Historic Study of Everyday Life at Lee House." 
In his lecture, which is free and open to the public, Phillips will discuss his newest book “Looming Civil War: How Nineteenth-Century Americans Imagined the Future.”
Will’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Lowering the Temperature, and the Stakes, of Politics.” 
Coleman's talk, “In Times Like These: Responsive and Responsible Leadership,” can be viewed in full online.
The historic institutions will temporarily exchange iconic portraits of George Washington, which will go on public view in mid-December.
The event is free and open to the public.
The Board has decided to rename two buildings and endorse two changes in Lee Chapel.
David Cox, professor of history at Southern Virginia University, will give Lee Chapel’s fall lecture on Oct. 8 at 12:15 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
W&L’s University Collections of Art and History partnered with Professor Eric Moffa’s teacher education class to create a fun lesson plan for local middle school students. 
This event is free and open to the public.
Those who wish to visit the Lee Chapel Museum between Jan. 22 and Feb. 9 may enter through the main museum entrance on the side of the chapel.
The title of Noe's talk is “A Storm to Destroy My Hopes: Weather and Robert E. Lee’s Cheat Mountain Campaign.”
Lee Chapel and Museum will present Lee Family Day on April 1 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Lee Chapel and Museum.
Lee Chapel and Museum presents “Remembering Robert E. Lee” with a speech by J. Holt Merchant ’61, professor of history emeritus, at Washington and Lee University on Oct. 10 at 12:15 p.m. in Lee Chapel Auditorium.
The Lee Chapel Spring Lecture will be held at Washington and Lee University on March 29 from 12-1 p.m. in Lee Chapel Auditorium. Speaking will be Dr. Andrew Levy, the Edna Cooper Chair in English at Butler University and author of the award-winning biography, “The First Emancipator” (2005).
American historian and author Joseph Ellis will be the featured speaker at Washington and Lee’s Founders Day-Omicron Delta Kappa Convocation on Jan. 19 at 5 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
“150 Years Later: Lee’s Lasting Vision,” Lee Chapel and Museum’s new changing exhibition, will mark the 150th anniversary of Robert E. Lee’s inauguration as the 11th president of Washington College, which took place on Oct. 2, 1865.
Lee Chapel and Museum will present multi-instrumentalist, composer and seasoned performer Bobby Horton on Oct. 11 at 7 p.m. in the Lee Chapel Auditorium. The title of Horton’s event is “Songs and Stories of the Civil War.”
Lee Chapel and Museum presents “Remembering Robert E. Lee” with a speech by author and former White House presidential speech writer Jonathan Horn on Oct. 12 at 12:15 p.m. in the Lee Chapel Auditorium.
Robert E. Lee’s horse, Traveller, will be celebrated with the live appearance of a look-alike mount, Traveller-themed tours and a scavenger hunt Sept. 19 when Lee Chapel and Museum at Washington and Lee University holds Traveller Day.
Coinciding with the 150th anniversary of General Robert E. Lee's surrender at Appomattox on April 9, 1865, Washington and Lee University has received the gift of a rare collection of 29 vintage prints and original graphics depicting the historic event. It is arguably the most comprehensive collection of such images — all of immaculate museum quality and including two original works by artists of the period.
Author David E. Johnson will give the Lee Chapel Annual Spring Lecture at Washington and Lee University on March 23 at 12:15 p.m. Doors will open at 11:45 a.m.
The Washington and Lee University Chanoyu Tea Society will be hosting a Women and Girl's Day tea ceremony on Saturday, March 7, in the Japanese Tea Room, Senshin'an, located in the Watson Pavilion at W&L. Students will perform a traditional tea ceremony and serve sweets and tea to all.
Washington and Lee University's Reeves Center and Watson Pavilion will have an official "opening" on Thursday, Jan. 22, from 5-7 p.m. They will now be open to the public on a regular basis and their new hours will be 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
During the Lee Chapel renovations, the Lee Chapel staff would like to invite the community to visit the Reeves Center and Watson Pavilion to explore their galleries. The Watson Pavilion will host the portraits from the Washington-Custis-Lee Collection, a student curated ceramics exhibit, a Japanese tea room and a pop up museum shop. The Reeves Center houses the 4th largest ceramics collection in the United States.
Lee Chapel and Museum on the campus of Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Virginia, will close for the installation of a new fire suppression system from Dec. 12 through late March 2015, part of W&L's continuing efforts to preserve its historic buildings.
George Taylor, co-director of Taylor and Boody Organbuilders of Staunton, Virginia, will give a talk about the Lee Chapel organ and its history on Monday, Nov. 3, at 7 p.m. in the auditorium of the Lee Chapel & Museum at Washington and Lee University.
Lee Chapel and Museum presents "Remembering Robert E. Lee" with a speech by noted historian, professor and author Dr. Christian B. Keller on Monday, Oct. 13, at 12:15 p.m. in the Lee Chapel Auditorium. The public is invited at no charge.
Capt. Robert C. Peniston, the retired Navy officer who served as director of Lee Chapel from 1976 until his retirement in 1998, died on Saturday, Aug. 2, in Lexington. He was 91.
The Lee Chapel and Museum Shop at Washington and Lee University is holding a book signing on Saturday, May 24, from 2-3 p.m. for authors Helen Broder and Nan Marshall to showcase their book, "What Would George Do: Advice from our Founding Father."
Author Donald A. Hopkins will speak at Washington and Lee University on his latest book, "Robert E. Lee in War and Peace," on Tuesday, March 25, at 7 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
he Phi Beta Kappa chapter at Washington and Lee University will induct new members into the prestigious academic honor society at the Phi Beta Kappa/Society of the Cincinnati Convocation on Thursday, March 13, at 11:45 a.m. in Lee Chapel.
Washington and Lee's Contact Committee will present Jane Goodall, Founder of the Jane Goodall Institute and UN Messenger of Peace, who will speak on Thursday, March 6, at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. The title of Goodall's talk is "Sowing the Seeds of Hope."
Allen C. Guelzo, one of the nation's most distinguished scholars of Abraham Lincoln, will deliver the keynote address for Washington and Lee University's observance of the 150th anniversary of the Emancipation Proclamation on Wednesday, Feb. 12, at 6 p.m. in Lee Chapel. The event is free and open to the public.
Washington and Lee's Contact Committee will present "An Evening with Former CIA Agent Tony Mendez" on Thursday, Feb. 6, at 7 p.m. in Lee Chapel. The event is free and open to the public.  Doors will open at 6:30 p.m., and seating is provided on a first come, first serve basis.
Donna Brazile, the veteran political strategist, will deliver the keynote speech of Washington and Lee University's celebration of the birthday of Martin Luther King Jr. on Sunday, Jan. 26, at 5:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel on the W&L campus. Her talk is free and open to the public. There will be a reception and book signing in Evans Hall following the address.
Lucas Morel, the Class of 1960 Professor of Ethics at Washington and Lee University, will address the University's annual Founders' Day/Omicron Delta Kappa Convocation on Monday, Jan. 20, at 11:45 a.m. in Lee Chapel.
Robert D. Kaplan, chief geopolitical analyst for Stratfor, a private global intelligence firm, will lecture at Washington and Lee University on Thursday, Jan. 16, at 7 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
Washington and Lee University's annual Candlelight Service featuring the W&L University Singers will be held Thursday, Dec. 5, at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel. Seating will begin at 7:15 p.m. The public is invited to the presentation at no charge, and the service will be broadcast live online.
Sarah Beth Hampton, a junior from Chapel Hill, N.C., has been elected executive director of the Williams Investment Society (WIS) at Washington and Lee University.
Washington and Lee commemorated Veterans Day on Monday, Nov. 11, with its traditional gathering of veterans from the ranks of the University's staff, faculty, retirees and students.
Renowned author, academic and former Canadian politicians explores the role of democratic deliberation in human rights interventions.
Frank A. O'Reilly will give the Remembering Robert E. Lee speech on Oct. 14, 2013.
Addressing the 54th Institute on Ethics in Journalism at Washington and Lee University on Friday, David Carr, media and culture columnist at The New York Times, said that the time to be a journalist is now.
Addressing Washington and Lee University&rsquo;s annual “Remembering Robert E. Lee&rdquo; talk on Monday, Oct. 8, historian Jeffry D. Wert told the Lee Chapel audience that Lee had no choice but to make bold moves in the early days of his command of the Army of Northern Virginia. The title of Wert&rsquo;s speech was “Lee and [&hellip;]
Ken Auletta, one of America&#039;s premier media critics, will present the keynote address to Washington and Lee University&#039;s 12th annual Institute for Honor on Friday, March 2, at 4 p.m. in Lee Chapel. The institute is exploring &quot;The New Conversation: How Are the News Media Shaping Our Political Beliefs.&quot; The title of Auletta&#039;s speech is [&hellip;]
Pulitzer Prize-winning author Ron Chernow discussed George Washington's leadership at Washington and Lee's Founders' Day/ODK Convocation.
Washington and Lee University's Alpha Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa recognized four honorary initiates in addition to 31 student initiates at the Founders Day/Omicron Delta Kappa Convocation.
Renowned biographer Ron Chernow, who won the Pulitzer Prize for his 2010 biography of George Washington, Washington: A Life, will address Washington and Lee University&#039;s annual Founders&#039; Day/Omicron Delta Kappa Convocation on Thursday, Jan. 19, 2012, at 11:45 a.m. in Lee Chapel. The speech, also titled &quot;Washington: A Life,&quot; is free and open to the [&hellip;]
Washington and Lee University&#039;s Contact Committee will present Frank Abagnale, the con artist of Catch Me If You Can fame, on Tuesday, Nov. 15, at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. The talk is free and open to the public. Between the ages of 16 and 21, Abagnale successfully posed as an airline pilot, an attorney, [&hellip;]
Author Terry Tempest Williams, an environmental conservationist and fierce advocate for freedom of speech, will give a reading with commentary at Washington and Lee University on Wednesday, Oct. 19, at 7 p.m. in Lee Chapel. It is free and open to the public. The reading will be immediately followed by an audience Q&A with a [&hellip;]
Lee Chapel & Museum at Washington and Lee University presents noted Civil War historian Dr. James I. Robertson Jr. lecturing on “Remembering Robert E. Lee,&rdquo; a program commemorating the 141st anniversary of Lee&rsquo;s death. The talk will be on Monday, Oct. 10, at 12:15 p.m. in Lee Chapel auditorium. Lee died in Lexington on Oct. [&hellip;]
Rev. John Talley, minister of the Reformed University Fellowship (RUF), told those gathered at a prayer vigil in memory of the 9/11 terror attacks on Sunday morning in front of Lee Chapel that the events 10 years ago represent an opportunity to change as individuals. The prayer vigil was sponsored by W&L&#039;s College Democrats and [&hellip;]
Addressing the Fall Convocation to open Washington and Lee University&#039;s 263rd year, Pamela Hemenway Simpson, the Ernest Williams II Professor of Art History at the University, told the Warner Center audience that development of the W&L campus over several hundred years resulted in not just a collection of buildings, but a symbol. &quot;What we so [&hellip;]