Wythe Whiting is a professor of cognitive and behavioral science.
Rachel Hubbard is the Communication and Marketing Coordinator and has worked at W&L Law since February 2017.
These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university.
New Williams School construction and Elrod Commons Phase 2 renovations both remain on schedule, while the new Lindley Center for Student Wellness will break ground soon.
Ronda Bryant serves as associate dean of students.
The state-of-the-art facility will be the new home of the Student Health Center and University Counseling Services.
The former executive director of ArtPower at the University of California, San Diego will begin his new role in July.
Laura Lemon '16 serves as assistant university editor within the Office of Communications and Public Affairs
University Provost Lena Hill addressed new members of ODK during their spring induction ceremony.
Joshua Fairfield is the William Bain Family Professor of Law and the Director of AI Legal Innovation Strategy at W&L Law School. 
Haley Culbertson ‘22 serves as coordinator for the Johnson Program.
Nabors Service League continues to honor the late Jonathan Nabors ’02 by bringing students together to help the greater Rockbridge area.
The assistant professor of French will utilize the scholarship to perform research in Paris.
The second annual Philanthropy Education Week highlighted the impact donations have on the undergraduate experience.
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join W&L faculty to discuss their teaching, research and passion projects.
Emma Martone is the Administrative Assistant for the Law Library and Law Center.
Aseel Atalla is an Arabic teaching assistant in the Middle East and South Asia studies program.
Miller, whose appointment is effective July 1, joined Denison as vice president of student life in 2020 and has over 20 years of experience in higher education as a student affairs professional. 
On March 22, the University Provost will address 51 new initiates of W&L’s Alpha Circle of ODK.
The following individuals recently joined the Washington and Lee employee workforce.
Take advantage of the resources that are available to assist you in your retirement planning.
Karen Woody has been a professor of law at W&L since July 2019.
Kelsey Goodwin is a writer in the Office of Communications and Public Affairs.
W&L recently joined the Great Lakes Colleges Association.
Terri Byrnes is an Academic Administrative Assistant II with the Law School.
Washington and Lee’s library staff share their recommendations for your next trip to the University Library.
Peter Grajzl is the John F. Hendon Professor of Economics.
Anna Fernandez is the Assistant Director of Community and Recruitment for Law Student Affairs.
The following individuals recently joined the Washington and Lee employee workforce.
Mauricio Betancourt is an assistant professor of environmental studies.
George Bent is the Sidney Gause Childress Professor of Art History.
Washington and Lee was ranked third among the baccalaureate institutions recognized by the Fulbright Program.
A student-run academic exercise, Mock Con remains the most accurate political mock convention in the country
Washington and Lee students are applying their accounting skills in the community as part of the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance program. 
Michael Rhodes is the manager of copying services.
The following individuals recently joined the Washington and Lee employee workforce.
Anna Billias is a lecturer in music and collaborative pianist.
Maureen Edobor ‘17L is an Assistant Professor of Law and DeLaney Center Fellow. 
Bryan Snyder ’95 is the head volleyball coach and associate director of athletics for finance.
Newly promoted faculty members will present their research in a PechaKucha format on Jan. 30.
Washington and Lee University’s Special Collections and Archives has been working with the 2024 Mock Convention to debut an exhibit showcasing extraordinary items from past conventions.
The current director of the Center for Teaching and Learning at Quinnipiac University will begin his new role effective June 1.
Sascha Goluboff is a professor of cultural anthropology and serves as director for both the Community-Based Learning program and the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty.
The event is co-sponsored by the Mudd Center for Ethics and Leyburn Library and will be held Wednesday, Jan. 24, at 4:30 p.m.
Elizabeth Outland Branner currently serves as the Senior Advisor of Law School Advancement.
A message to the campus community from President Will Dudley.
Ryan Connell is the athletics broadcaster and athletics multimedia creative specialist.
The following individuals recently joined the Washington and Lee employee workforce.
The professor of cultural anthropology will serve a dual role leading Community-Based Learning and the SHECP Consortium.
Susan Wager is the assistant director of the Lenfest Center.
Students in the Williams School consulted on a number of projects including marketing, research and social media strategy for businesses and organizations.
Meghan Ferguson serves as the financial aid coordinator for the university.
The Department of Earth and Environmental Geoscience provides students with the chance to expand their learning beyond the classroom by attending top national conferences.
Yurechko ’24 is the university’s first Marshall Scholar.
The Williams School construction and Elrod Commons Phase 2 renovations are well underway while maintenance on Sydney Lewis Hall nears completion.
The following individuals recently joined the Washington and Lee employee workforce.
Brian Murchison, Charles S. Rowe Professor of Law, has been on the law faculty since 1982.
Suzannah Vess is a systems administrator in human resources.
Jones-Fosu seeks to inspire the audience to bring meaning to the workplace during his session on Jan. 3 at 9 a.m. in Stackhouse Theater.
The sophomore goalkeeper boasts highest GPA of Final Four teams.
The Generals and Mammoths will meet in Friday's men's soccer semifinal in Salem, Virginia.
The associate professor of art history will serve as the Mudd Center Director for three years beginning July 1, 2024.
Suzanne Wade is the Assistant Director for Employer and Alumni Outreach for the Office of Career Strategy and Law Advancement.
Kyle McCoil serves as an assistant dean of students.
Michelle Cosby is the Assistant Dean of Legal Information Services and Professor of Practice. 
Elizabeth Knapp serves as director of the Johnson Program and professor of earth and environmental geoscience.
’Tis the season for holiday events on campus and in the local community! Check out what’s happening and make your plans to ring in the holiday season.
An award of $9,500 will support the center’s Screen to Square film series.
Leila Lawlor is Director of the new Academic Excellence Program and a Professor of Practice.
Ryan Brindle was presented the Rising Star Award and Dave Pfaff received the Excellence in Instructional Technology Award.
W&L’s recent staging of ‘Speech & Debate’ brought its cast, crew and audience an opportunity to engage with an innovative, collaborative approach to theater.
Ben Schlief is the associate director of recreation.
The following individuals recently joined the Washington and Lee employee workforce.
Catlin Meade is a professor of practice who has been teaching legal writing since 2022. 
Karena Gill is a visiting assistant professor of earth and environmental geoscience. 
The following individuals recently joined the Washington and Lee employee workforce.
A Q&A information session with Chief Information Officer David Saacke.
Tommy Roberts serves as the university's payroll supervisor.
Kristy Speers is the Senior Recruitment Coordinator at W&L Law.
Miranda Edwards serves as the student employment manager.
Alexi Pfeffer-Gillett joined W&L Law this fall as an assistant professor. 
The following individuals recently joined the Washington and Lee employee workforce.
These additional renovations will expand the Marketplace dining room, provide additional outdoor patio seating, and reconfigure the Cohen Family Amphitheater.
The EV station, located on the top deck of the University Parking Garage, will be accessible to the university community and campus visitors.
Christina Querrard is a custodian at Washington and Lee and works in Sydney Lewis Hall. 
Savannah Blake serves as an annual giving fellow.
The following individuals recently joined the Washington and Lee employee workforce.
Lewis Coffey serves as operations manager for auxiliary services.
W&L’s new offsite solar array, now fully operational, represents the university’s biggest leap to date toward an energy-independent future. 
Lisa Rodocker serves as assistant dean of admissions for the Law School.
Ashley Evans joined W&L Law in November 2022 as the Head of Collection Services for the Law Library.
Tom Hackman serves as theater technical director.
Erica Ingersoll is an Executive Assistant in the Dean’s Office of the Law School.
Schuyler Phillips serves as a sergeant with public safety.
The following individuals recently joined the Washington and Lee employee workforce.
A total of 20 new faculty are joining the university this year.
A total of 25 new instructors join the W&L community.
The Washington and Lee University community will commemorate the tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001, with a memorial service and the placing of 2,977 American flags on Cannan Green.
The following individuals recently joined the Washington and Lee employee workforce.
Brooke Peccie ’17 serves as assistant director of career and professional development.