Amelia Lancaster '22 has used her W&L experience to explore a number of interests, ultimately finding a passion in museum studies and Chinese that has allowed her to co-curate a museum exhibition on campus.
The discussion on Oct. 20, "A Wilde Teapot: Exploring Race, Gender and Sexuality,” is free and open to the public.
The Museums at W&L invite the public to their grand reopening reception on Sept. 24 at 4:30 p.m.
The public discussion, which explored female abolitionists’ roles in history, featured Lena Hill, dean of the college; Ron Fuchs, senior curator of ceramics; and Nneka Dennie, assistant professor of history.
On Feb. 26, W&L’s museums and art galleries reopened to current W&L students, faculty and staff for in-person visitation.
This plate, a recent gift to W&L's Reeves Museum of Ceramics from local collectors Joan and Jay Crawford, provides a window into Chinese culture and the material lives of one of Virginia’s most prestigious families.  
A jar on display in the Reeves Center is an example of talavera poblana, which is tin-glazed earthenware made in Puebla, Mexico.
This porcelain dish, which tells a story about the Dutch East India Company and the Dutch Golden Age of the 17th century, will be used in classes ranging from art history to economics. 
“An Embassy from the East-India Company of the United Provinces to the Grand Tartar Cham Emperor of China" tells the story of a trade delegation sent from the Dutch East India Company to China in 1655-57.
Joel Bernstein ’57 brings his passion for Native American art to W&L with a groundbreaking new exhibition.
This free family program is geared for ages 7-11; children must be accompanied by an adult.
This elegant bowl, which is part of W&L's Reeves Collection, can be traced back to the Opium War of 1839-1842.
Dr. Ling-ting Chiu, a Fulbright Scholar and assistant professor of history at Soochow University in Taiwan, spent the summer at Washington and Lee studying the works of former W&L professor and artist Professor I-Hsiung Ju.
Litzenburg, who worked at W&L from 1991 until 2003, was also the former acting university chaplain.
Boldt’s lecture is titled "Conversing a Great Deal with Your Picture: Portraiture and Society in Early Virginia.” 
The vase, which was made in the city of Deruta, illustrates two main influences on European ceramic design.
Visitors of the center will experience a newly renovated atrium that will house highlights from the collection.
A new exhibit, “Mementos of the Great War: Toby Jugs Commemorating Allied Leaders of World War I,” is open to the public in the Watson Pavilion at Washington and Lee University through December 2017.
A new exhibit, “Mementos of the Great War: Toby Jugs Commemorating Allied Leaders of World War I,” is open to the public in the Watson Pavilion at Washington and Lee University through December 2017.
In the first installment of our new series, Ron Fuchs tells the story behind a 4,000-year-old jar in Watson Pavilion.
Washington and Lee's ceramics expert, Ron Fuchs, has been named chairman of the board of the American Ceramic Circle.
James Walter Whitehead Sr., co-founder and Director Emeritus of the Reeves Center at Washington and Lee University, died on Thursday, Aug. 20, in Houston. He was 93. Arrangements are pending.
A new exhibit of Japanese export porcelain is now open in the Watson Pavilion at Washington and Lee University.
The Reeves Center at Washington and Lee University has acquired a rare and unusual pair of Chinese export porcelain vases decorated with scenes of porcelain production. They are a helpful illustration of how the ceramics on display at the Reeves Center were made.
Washington and Lee University's Reeves Center and Watson Pavilion will have an official "opening" on Thursday, Jan. 22, from 5-7 p.m. They will now be open to the public on a regular basis and their new hours will be 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Saturday.