Scott’s passion for the environment carries over from the classroom to opportunities on campus and beyond.
Leading Campus Kitchen, a student-run organization focused on addressing food insecurity, has been a rewarding experience.
“Mohammad Omer Khalil: Musings,” co-curated by four Washington and Lee students as part of a seminar course in museum studies, will be on display in the Watson Galleries Sept. 28, 2023 through June 1, 2024.
W&L students in this Spring Term’s “Swedish Theater” course were immersed in culture during their three weeks in Stockholm, Sweden.
The 2023 Spring Term course "Threats to Democracy" examined the form of government and explored the current challenges it faces.
Professor of Biology Robert Humston’s Spring Term course takes a deep dive into environmental problem-solving.
Professor of History Mikki Brock’s Spring Term course explores our fascination with the supernatural.
Students and faculty will summarize and display their Spring Term research and coursework.
Bill Hamilton will utilize the grant to fund his ongoing research on ecosystem health in Yellowstone National Park.  
The Honorable J. Michael Luttig ’76 will visit campus May 8-9 to reflect on his career and discuss his views on recent challenges to democracy and the rule of law.
Students in Elliott King’s Spring Term class, “Modern Art in Barcelona,” are being steeped in Spanish art, history and architecture during an unforgettable educational trip to Barcelona and Madrid.
Students in Michael and Lena Hill’s Spring Term course are discovering what inspired writers of past generations.
In this Spring Term course, Washington and Lee students are making data science look like a walk in the park.
CSI: W&L students are learning forensic science with the help of a real FBI evidence response team.
Julia Hernandez took a Spring Term class in Ghana and studied abroad in France and Morocco, proving that W&L is a gateway to opportunities all over the globe.
Spring Term courses aim to provide innovative, one-of-a-kind educational experiences to W&L students. Online instruction during COVID-19 led to many new opportunities.
Rigorous academics and a nationally ranked soccer program made W&L an ideal fit for Danny Tran '21.
After learning about natural hazards and their impact on society, students in this geology course took a mind-blowing field trip to Mount St. Helens.
In Professor Rob Mish’s Spring Term class, students take on virtually every aspect of creating a fully staged theatrical production. 
Sascha Goluboff's Spring Term class, Cults, took an in-depth look at the development and process behind misunderstood religions.
In Professor David Marsh's Spring Term class, the Blue Ridge Mountains became a living laboratory for the study of salamanders.
Special Topics in American Politics: Minority Rights and Gerrymandering challenged students to redraw the Virginia House and Senate districts to improve the election process.
Professor Yumiko Naito’s Spring Term class, Cool Japan: Manga, Business Etiquette, Language and Culture, approaches learning in a delicious and hands-on way.
“The House of Yes” is presented through special arrangement with Dramatists Play Service.
In the Genetic Engineering and Society SIn the Genetic Engineering and Society Spring Term class, students focus on the intersection of science, medicine, law, agriculture, ethics and public policy.pring Term class, students focus on the intersection of science, medicine, law, agriculture and public policy.
Although W&L has produced student-cast operas in the past, this is the first time students have been able to enroll in a credit-bearing opera workshop.
Current Advances in Psychological Science: Sleep, Health and Society, a Spring Term course taught by Ryan Brindle, explores the basics of sleep, why people need it, and the impacts of sleep deprivation.
We asked professors to share course materials and discussion questions to offer a sneak peek at the breadth of opportunities available during the best term of the year. 
Students in the Spring Term course Drawing in Place practice observational drawing in a beautiful setting near Lexington.
Our favorite term is well underway! Here is a glimpse inside some of the many fascinating courses being taught off-campus this year.
Professor of Art Christa Bowden's Spring Term course, Antique Photo Processes, focuses entirely on 19th-century photo processes. 
A market research project generated by W&L students is helping a Danish company to align its initiatives with the UN's Sustainable Development Goals.
After taking a course at Augusta Correctional Center, two W&L juniors helped to organize an exhibition at the university featuring artwork by artists who are incarcerated. The exhibit is entitled “Unfreedom of Expression.” 
Washington and Lee students partnered with Eagle’s Nest Clubhouse members to create a 32-foot community mural around the theme of recovery.
Professor Ricardo Wilson's Spring Term class spent 10 days writing short fiction at Skylark Nature Preserve and Lodge in Raphine.
Donald Gaylord's Spring Term class introduced students to archaeological lab methods through hands-on experience, readings and field trips. 
The event allows students to present coursework and research conducted over the duration of the term.
Spring Term allows W&L students to focus intensely on one topic for four weeks, or to create an experience that is unique to their educational path.
Students in Meg Griffith’s Spring Term art class created public works of art to draw attention to important causes in the community.
Professor Angie Smith's spring term class grapples with the question of just war theory in an age of terrorism.
The spring term class asks: What possibilities does law offer after massive political violence has occurred, and what are the limits of law after massive political violence?
A Spring Term course helps students with little or no science background understand the scientific principles that govern our world.
W&L professors collaborate on a Spring Term course about American Indians and land.
A Washington and Lee Spring Term class examined the history of ghost belief and local ghost lore.
A new Spring Term class has an English professor and an art professor teaming up to guide students through writing and illustrating a comic book.
Tracy Lupher, professor of philosophy and religion at James Madison University, will give a lecture at Washington and Lee University on May 4 at 4:30 p.m. in Huntley 327.
Bob Mankoff, cartoon editor of The New Yorker, will give a public talk at Washington and Lee University on May 18, at 4:30 p.m. at Stackhouse Theater in Elrod Commons.
Katrina Spiezio of Taunton, Massachusetts, a sophomore at Washington and Lee University, has been awarded a Benjamin A. Gilman International Scholarship. Spiezio will be studying abroad in China during W&L's Spring Term.
Old account ledgers might seem a dry subject to most people, but to a class at Washington and Lee University they offered a rare opportunity to shine new light on local history.
Robert Strong, interim provost at Washington and Lee University, introduces MIICs — Massively Intensive Innovative Courses — in an op-ed in the Richmond Times-Dispatch.
A four-week Spring Term course on robotics at Washington and Lee taught students to control a drone with hand gestures.
The Washington and Lee Spring Term course on Chicano art was featured in a story titled "Virginia is for Chicano Art Lovers" in the "Departures" section of Los Angeles KCET's website on May 23, 2013. Taught by Andrea LePage, assistant professor of art at W&L, the course benefitted from the Stanier Gallery exhibition "Chicanitas: Small […]
Washington and Lee University, in collaboration with Union College, of New York, and Gettysburg College, of Pennsylvania, has received a $230,000 grant over 25 months from the Teagle Foundation, of Philadelphia, to improve learning outcomes on their respective campuses.
Washington and Lee students in a Spring Term course on Urban Education spent three weeks embedded in Richmond public schools where they evaluated various educational policy proposals.
Retired U.S. Ambassador Kenneth Yalowitz is teaching Washington and Lee students about diplomacy as he practiced it during 36 years as a career diplomat and a member of the Senior Foreign Service.
A Washington and Lee University psychology course on achieving peak performance is more than a mere academic exercise. According to Brodie Gregory, visiting assistant professor of psychology, by the time the students complete the four-week Spring Term course she&rsquo;s offering, they will not only understand the underlying psychological theories but they will also have a [&hellip;]
A new spring term course at Washington and Lee University, "Animal Behavior and Human Morality," is delving into the history of how people hve looked to animal behavior for answers on how humans should conduct themselves.
Students in the Washington and Lee Spring Term course  "Too Big to Fail: Commerce, Corruption and Crisis in Antiquity," have discovered how ancient financial crises really are.