Lauren Shelby ’23 will be pursuing her master’s degree at New York University.
Andrew Tartakovsky ’23 received a Fulbright grant to teach English in Azerbaijan.
Charlotte Dross ’23 is working in public relations as a postgraduate intern at Jackson Spalding.
Sadie Charles Calame ’23 is working as a construction lead for Teton Habitat for Humanity.
Harris Hubbard ’23 will attend graduate school at Rutgers University Business School before joining Wells Fargo as an investment banking analyst.
Tahri Phillips ’23 will be pursuing a master’s degree at the University of Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar.
Caroline Wise ’23 is working as a backcountry guide for St. Elias Alpine Guides in Alaska.
Allie Stankewich ’23 will spend the summer in Tanzania before pursuing a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship in Uganda.
Blake Sanchez ’23 is working as a management consultant in the Public Health Segment at Guidehouse in Washington, D.C.
Ellie Penner ’23 received a Boren Scholarship to study Hindi in India.
Gabby Emge ’23 will be pursuing her J.D. at Harvard Law School.
Sharon Mendieta Ramirez ’23 has designed her W&L experience to prepare her for her career as an educator.
Andrea Levan '22 is a paralegal specialist in the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice in Washington, D.C. 
By his sophomore year at W&L, McPheeters knew he wanted to go into investment banking after graduation. Today, he works as an investment banking analyst in Houlihan Lokey's Industrials group in New York City.
Cleveland is working as a trip leader for an active travel company in Alaska this summer, and she plans to work in Europe this fall. 
Elizabeth Grist '22 will spend next year conducting research in Melbourne, Australia as a Fulbright Scholar. Her project assesses the barriers and stigma associated with receiving medication for opioid use disorder. 
This fall, Jin Ni ’22 will pursue her master’s degree in human rights at University College London in the United Kingdom.  
Leah Jackson ’22 always knew she wanted to pursue the health field. Thanks to summer internships and dedication, she heads off to Harvard this fall to follow her passion.  
After a successful summer internship in 2021, W&L's Rett Daugbjerg '22 is now working for JLL's Capital Markets group in Atlanta, Georgia. 
Kristen Xu ’22 worked diligently during her time at W&L to accomplish her dream of working with a beauty company after graduation. Currently, she is a global marketing coordinator at NARS Cosmetics in New York.
Shrestha worked with the Office of Career and Professional Development at W&L to "engineer" the perfect career after graduation. 
Rosen utilized summer internships to help land his current role as an analyst at SVB Securities. 
Burden is taking her talents to New York City to work in strategic planning at advertising agency BBDO.
Spanfeller will be applying her studies in sociology and strategic communication to her new role as an editorial assistant for Women's Health magazine.
After his USTA program orientation in September, Tinsley will teach in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
Sharman will put his degrees to use in a position on Capitol Hill.
Sheridan, a business administration and studio art major, will be joining the wealth management team at UBS in New York City.
At W&L, Kirkland discovered that his two passions, sports and engineering, could be combined into one fulfilling pursuit. He's going to intern at a sports equipment company before heading to grad school at Purdue.
Kingwill has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Uzbekistan. He will depart in September 2022 for his 10-month program. 
Assenso, a neuroscience major, is heading to the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York, where she will be a clinical research coordinator.
After her USTA program orientation in September, Joey Dickinson will be teaching in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
Mosher has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Kazakhstan. He will also spend this summer receiving intensive Russian language training in Tbilisi, Georgia.
Elizabeth Grist has been awarded a Fulbright research grant to Melbourne, Australia, to study the stigma and barriers associated with receiving medication for opioid use disorder.
Three members of the Class of 2022 will spend seven months in the Teaching Assistant Program in France (TAPIF) teaching English to public school.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Johnston was recently awarded a fellowship to the Center for Arabic Study Abroad at the American University in Cairo.
Carley will serve as an English language teaching assistant in a school in the former Soviet republic.
Galvez has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to France, where he will teach English to secondary school students and serve as a cultural ambassador for the United States.
Addison has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Uruguay, where she will teach English to primary or secondary school students and serve as a cultural ambassador for the United States.
Tripathi will teach English to students in Colombia for 10 months.
Lee has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Costa Rica starting in early 2023.
Keeley will live in a German community for one academic year to teach English to students in a local school.
Riter will spend the next academic year volunteering with a community organization, working as an English teaching assistant and taking courses at the University of Graz.
McMaster has been awarded a Fulbright research grant to Italy to complete a hybrid art history and computer science project.
Larsen will spend the next academic year studying at the Budapest Semesters in Mathematics and participating in a research group at the Alfréd Rényi Institute of Mathematics.