Six 2L students had their scholarly work selected for publication in the Journal.
The pioneering online and open-access journal sees its impact in recent top ranking from Google Scholar.
The event will bring together scholars from around the globe to consider the problem of sexual violence and examine how law can help.
Dr. Rigoni will contribute to the law school’s comparative law seminar, which surveys German law and legal culture. 
Prof. Russ Miller published "Pandemic as Transboundary Harm: Lessons from the Trail Smelter Arbitration."
Russell Miller is the J.B. Stombock Professor of Law at W&L Law where his research and teaching focus on public law and comparative law.
Prof. Markard will contribute to the law school’s comparative law seminar, which surveys German law and legal culture.
Russell Miller, J.B. Stombock Professor of Law at Washington and Lee University, is the recipient of a Humboldt Research Prize, one of Germany’s highest academic honors.
The June 24 hearing examined the issue of China’s legal responsibility for the global COVID-19 pandemic.
At the blog LawFare, Russ Miller examines a ruling by the German Constitutional Court limiting German espionage activities.
Russ Miller has joined two other Virginia law professors in an amicus curiae brief in a case challenging the Governor’s lockdown order as it applies to indoor shooting ranges.
How will the international law principles established in the Trail Smelter Arbitration of the 1920s inform liability for the spread of COVID-19.
Respected German scholar Kai Ambos will visit W&L Law this month to help kick off celebrations marking the German Law Journal’s 20th anniversary. 
Washington and Lee law professor Russ Miller will spend this year-long fellowship researching  and collaborating with leading scholars on issues of security and liberty at the University of Freiburg's Center for Civil Security as well as the program's partners at Bucerius Law School, the Max Planck Institute for Foreign and International Criminal Law, and the German Federal Police Academy.