This exhibit is free and open to the public, with a scheduled reception and lecture by curator and scholar Jacqueline Chao on March 8 at 5 p.m.
The solo exhibition by sculptor Sam Blanchard is on view until Feb. 8.
The show will be on view from Nov. 7-Dec. 9
The Just Food series continues on Nov. 7 at 6 p.m. with an artist’s talk by Jackie Black.
Poets Julie Phillips Brown and Brenna Womer will present a public poetry reading on Feb. 2 at 12:15 p.m. in the Science Center Atrium.
The exhibit, with works by Maria Cristina Tavera, will be on display Nov. 8-Dec. 3.
Washington and Lee’s Aly Colón will host a conversation with Krissah Thompson from The Washington Post via Zoom on Nov. 9.
Washington and Lee will present a joint concert featuring the University Jazz Ensemble and the Vosbein Magee Big Band on Nov. 11 at 8 p.m.
Andrew Chignell, a professor at Princeton University, will give a lecture on Oct. 28 at 5 p.m. 
The discussion on Oct. 20, "A Wilde Teapot: Exploring Race, Gender and Sexuality,” is free and open to the public.
Eric Tran, a Vietnamese poet and author, will give a public lecture on Nov. 9 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium on the W&L campus.
W&L presents a staged reading of Will Arbery’s “Heroes of the Fourth Turning” in the Johnson Theatre on the W&L campus on Oct. 21-23 at 7:30 p.m.
The cohort will present a virtual public lecture by Elizabeth Rule, assistant professor at American University, titled "Native Americans and Blood Quantum."
Ashley Killam will present a lecture titled “Fanfare for the Unheard: Diversifying Stands and Creating Inclusive Repertoire.”
The series will end the academic year with a roundtable discussion on May 19 at 6 p.m. titled "The Black Freedom Struggle: Verdicts on Advocacy."
Morris is the great-great-great-grandson of Frederick Douglass and the great-great-grandson of Booker T. Washington.
Lebsack will perform a virtual organ concert via livestream on May 18 at 7 p.m.
The duet consists of Julia Goudimova and Anna Billias, who both serve as lecturers in the Washington and Lee Music Department.
Nandini Pandey’s lecture is titled "Diversity, Desire, and the Exotic in Ancient Rome (with some thoughts on Atlanta)."
De León will give a virtual lecture on May 4 at 5 p.m. as part of W&L's Mudd Center for Ethics series.
The April 8 talk is titled "Art as Transformation: Using Photography for Social Change."
Katrina Forrester will give a virtual lecture on March 25 at 5 p.m. as part of W&L’s Mudd Center for Ethics series.
The March 22 conversation with Rowe, host of the hit television series “Dirty Jobs,” is open to the W&L community.
Felix Kwame Yeboah will give a virtual lecture on March 15 at 5 p.m. as part of W&L’s Mudd Center for Ethics series.
The Feb. 24 talk, which is free and open to the public to view online, is titled “A Conversation with David Fahrenthold of the Washington Post: Unraveling the Troubled, Secretive Trump Empire.”
Valerie Hudson, George H.W. Bush Chair and professor of international affairs at Texas A&M University, will deliver a virtual lecture on Feb. 15 at 5 p.m. as part of W&L’s Mudd Center for Ethics series.
The screening will be free and open to the public to view online. A discussion with the film’s creators will follow the screening.
This year's observance of MLK day will comprise a variety of virtual events and lectures.
The show is free and open to the public to view online.
The show is free and open to the public.
Guitarist Bhattacharya, who brings universal appeal to his pioneering fusion of classical Indian ragas and bluesy Western music, will perform on Nov. 14 at 7:30 p.m.
The show is free and open to the public to view online.
W&L’s Contact Committee presents two separate evenings with former presidential candidates Jeb Bush and Andrew Yang as part of a virtual speaker series leading up to the presidential election.
"American Folk" is a series of photographic portraits by West Virginia-based artist Lisa Elmaleh. She will give a virtual artist's talk on Nov. 4 at 5:30 p.m.
Slaughter's lecture, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Renewing the Promise of America: Looking Back to Move Forward."
Rice's lecture, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Cultural Norms and the Export of the W&L Honor System."
The performance will run Oct. 15-18, and it is free and open to the public to watch via livestream.
Dr. Guelzo will deliver this year’s lecture, “The Mystery of Robert E. Lee,” virtually.
Washington and Lee University’s Native American Cohort invites the community to celebrate Native American Heritage with special events throughout the academic year.
The acclaimed group is known worldwide for promoting social justice and human rights for all people and genders. The virtual exhibit and lecture are free and open to the public.
For anyone participating in online learning during this time, there are several resources available through the museums that can help enrich the virtual classroom experience.
Author and historian Ryan Cole will give a public lecture at W&L on March 23.
Representatives from area day camps and sleepover camps will be available to share information about their 2020 summer programs.
W&L's studio art majors present their senior projects in an online exhibition.
Her talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled "Barely Legal: Political Ads, Social Media and #sponcon."
Moyers will speak on addiction and recovery.
The conference is titled Ethics and Technology: Surveillance, Civil Rights, and Cyber-Security.
Quashie teaches black cultural and literary studies at Brown University.
The Rhodes Scholarship, which averages $70,000 per year and up to as much as $250,000, fully funds two to four years of study at the University of Oxford in England.
The celebration includes a film screening, a faculty panel and a trivia game. All events are free and open to the public.
Tickets are not required.
A panel discussion will feature six leading business journalists who cover big financial and economic stories.
Shrayer will read from and discuss his new book, “A Russian Immigrant: Three Novellas.”
Joukhadar will read from and discuss his new novel, “The Thirty Names of Night.”
The concert is free and open to the public, and a reception will follow the performance.
The title of Lynn Rainville’s talk is “Untold Stories of Founders, Leaders and Other Visionaries at W&L.”
Coddington’s book is titled “Aggregating the News: Secondhand Knowledge and the Erosion of Journalistic Authority.”
The ceremony will take place Jan. 20 in the Senshin’an Tea Room.
 The title of Bodel's lecture was "The epigraphic habit and the epigraphic mode."
 “A Literary Field Guide to Southern Appalachia” contains poems from three W&L faculty members.
The event is free and open to the public.
The event is free and open to the public.
The concert is free, and no tickets are required.
Eubanks' talk is titled "The Shakedown State: Digital Debt, Economic Inequality and Automation in Public Services."
The public reading is free and open to the public.
Chaisson’s lecture, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Cosmic Evolution.”
This concert is free and open to the public. No tickets are required.
The show is free and open to the public.
An exhibition of photographic works by Texas-based artist Mari Hernandez will open in Washington and Lee’s Staniar Gallery Nov. 5.
In the spirit of Halloween, Thorburn and Wappel will create a musical soundscape inspired by the legends, literature and classic films of the season.
Miranda’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “’Coyote Learns a New Trick’: Beth Brant and Two-Spirit Literatures.”
Arkin is a roboticist and roboethicist.
The conversation will address how the news media grapples with ethics in confrontational times. 
The concert is free and open to the public, and no tickets are required. 
Tickets are free but required, and they are offered first to W&L parents and family.
Campbell's talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled "The Giants of Africa: What's Next for South Africa and Nigeria?"
She is the assistant director of the Furious Flower Poetry Center
Baker has covered four presidents for the New York Times and Washington Post: Donald Trump, Barack Obama, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton.
The duo will be discussing their new book, “Superhero Thought Experiments.”
The reading is free and open to the public, with books for sale following the event.
Smith’s talk is titled “An Ethical Framework for a God-Like Intellect.”
The discussion is free and open to the public.
The event, which is free and open to the public, is titled "The Future of the Amazon Rain Forest."
The program will include 14 works, all of which were performed by Gaylard in recitals between 1987 and 2017.
The works will be on display through Sept. 27, with an artist’s talk and reception on Sept. 18. 
The talk is free and open to the public.
The talk is free and open to the public.
Pulitzer Prize winners Susanne Craig and Rachel Abrams to visit W&L Sept. 19
The concert is free and open to the public, and no tickets are required.
Myer's talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “A Civil War Murder(?) Mystery: The Death and Burial of Lt. John Rodgers Meigs.”
The title of Sue’s lecture is “Microaggressions: Toxic Rain on College Campuses."
The screening, which is free and open to the public, will advance the Lexington conference of the South Sudanese Diaspora Network for Reconciliation and Peace (SSDNRP). 
Although W&L has produced student-cast operas in the past, this is the first time students have been able to enroll in a credit-bearing opera workshop.
Camp’s lecture, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Discovering Baghdad: How Writing My Father’s Story Took Me to the Tigris.” 
Gastañaga's lecture, which is free and open to the public, is titled "Racial Justice at the Ballot Box: Moving Beyond Restoration of Rights." 
The weekend’s seminar will feature Delia Owens, author of the critically acclaimed debut novel “Where the Crawdads Sing."
The show will be on display from April 22–May 24.
The all-student band is comfortable performing in a wide range of styles, and this concert will present an impressive gamut.
The show is free and open to the public. 
 The concert is open to the public, and no tickets are required.