“Myth, Magic, and Madness” will feature a dynamic lineup of creative workshops, dramatic readings and staged productions March 21-22.
The Oct. 18 event is open to W&L students, faculty and staff.
Patwardhan’s talk “What I See with My Eyes: Tarabai Shinde on Men’s Blame of Women” will be held Oct. 17 at 5 p.m.
Annual Provost’s Lecture celebrates W&L faculty for excellence in scholarship and teaching.
Rissie Murphy serves as the operations manager for the Provost's Office.
A variety of events and lectures are planned for this year’s observance of MLK day.
Wingard Cunningham joins W&L from College of Wooster, where she is the Mildred Foss Thompson Professor of English and dean for faculty development.
Michael Hill, professor and chair of the Africana Studies program at Washington and Lee University, has been named the inaugural director of the University’s new DeLaney Center, an interdisciplinary academic center for teaching and research on Southern race relations, culture, and politics.
Riter will spend the next academic year volunteering with a community organization, working as an English teaching assistant and taking courses at the University of Graz.
McMaster has been awarded a Fulbright research grant to Italy to complete a hybrid art history and computer science project.
Six undergraduate students received Critical Language Scholarships, which will provide them the opportunity to study language intensively during summer 2022.
Melanie D. Wilson has been named the next dean of Washington and Lee University’s School of Law. She will also hold the Roy L. Steinheimer Jr. Professorship in Law.
Cox is an award-winning historian and a distinguished lecturer for the Organization of American Historians.
A record-setting year for nationally competitive fellowship awards at Washington and Lee University can be attributed to forward-thinking educators, hard-working students and a persistent, encouraging fellowships director. 
Washington and Lee University will name a new interdisciplinary academic center for teaching and research on Southern race relations, culture, and politics in honor of late professor of history emeritus Theodore “Ted” Carter DeLaney Jr. '85.
The series will end the academic year with a roundtable discussion on May 19 at 6 p.m. titled "The Black Freedom Struggle: Verdicts on Advocacy."
Chawne Kimber, Thomas Roy and Lura Forrest Jones Professor of Mathematics, head of the Mathematics Department, and co-director of the Hanson Center for Inclusive STEM Education at Lafayette College, has been named dean of the College at Washington and Lee University.
The public discussion, which explored female abolitionists’ roles in history, featured Lena Hill, dean of the college; Ron Fuchs, senior curator of ceramics; and Nneka Dennie, assistant professor of history.
The Feb. 24 online lecture, titled “Black Entrepreneurs: Where Does Money Fit into Protest?,” will examine capitalism as a part of the Black freedom-fighting arsenal.
The Feb. 11 conversation with Bloom is open to the W&L community.
The virtual talk, which is free and open to the public online, is titled "Naming Injustice: Charlene Teters (Spokane) and John Little (Standing Rock Sioux) on American Indian Mascots."
The series will present two events, "Looking at Blackness" and "Legislative Leverage: Democratic Processes as Activism,” in late January.
This year's observance of MLK day will comprise a variety of virtual events and lectures.
Washington and Lee University is among the 51 inaugural member institutions* of the Liberal Arts Colleges Racial Equity Leadership Alliance, a new initiative from the University of Southern California's Race and Equity Center.
Lena Hill, dean of the College and professor of English and Africana studies at Washington and Lee, has been appointed to be the university’s next provost, beginning July 1, 2021.
W&L will present “What Happened Last Night?” virtually on Nov. 4 at 6 p.m.
Elizabeth Kolbert, a staff writer for The New Yorker, will give a virtual lecture on Oct. 29 at 5 p.m. 
The event is scheduled for Oct. 29 and 30 and will be hosted on Zoom.
At the virtual event, participants will explore how activism takes many forms, why specific actions are labeled as sedentary, and whether these forms of activism help, harm or do not affect the message.
Slaughter's lecture, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Renewing the Promise of America: Looking Back to Move Forward."
The performance will run Oct. 15-18, and it is free and open to the public to watch via livestream.
Michelle Lyon Drumbl, Robert O. Bentley Professor of Law and director of the Tax Clinic at the Washington and Lee University School of Law, has been appointed to a one-year term as interim dean of the law school effective July 1, 2021.
Dr. Guelzo will deliver this year’s lecture, “The Mystery of Robert E. Lee,” virtually.
As part of the yearlong celebration of Native American Heritage, W&L will host a free virtual lecture with Katrina Phillips, an assistant professor of American Indian history at Macalester College and an enrolled member of the Red Cliff Band of Lake Superior Ojibwe. 
The deadline for submitting a proposal for the fall 2020 evaluation is 4:30 p.m. on Friday, Oct. 16, 2020.
The Entrepreneurship Summit will take place online on Friday and Saturday, Oct. 2–3.
Washington and Lee University’s Native American Cohort invites the community to celebrate Native American Heritage with special events throughout the academic year.
The panel discussion, titled "Antiracism, White Activists, and Black Freedom," is free and open to the public to watch virtually.
Tolu Olubunmi, a 2002 graduate of Washington and Lee, will return to her alma mater as the guest speaker for Washington and Lee’s first International Day of Peace event. 
The Africana Studies Program at W&L, in partnership with the Rupert H. Johnson Jr. Program in Leadership and Integrity, will host a series of events focused on activism and Black life. It kicks off Aug. 26 with a panel discussion featuring three W&L faculty members.
Franks, a professor of law at the University of Miami School of Law, will discuss the topic of her 2019 book, “The Cult of the Constitution: Our Deadly Devotion to Guns and Free Speech.”
For anyone participating in online learning during this time, there are several resources available through the museums that can help enrich the virtual classroom experience.
The university has canceled all campus events featuring external speakers or visitors beginning at noon on Saturday, March 13 and continuing through Saturday, April 18.
Sascha L. Goluboff, professor and chair of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Washington and Lee University, has been named the university’s next director of community-based learning. W&L Provost Marc Conner announced the three-year appointment, which will begin on July 1.
W&L's studio art majors present their senior projects in an online exhibition.
Her talk is titled "Not Everything That Counts Can Be Counted: Observations on the Historic and Contemporary Role of the Liberal Arts.”
Her talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled "Barely Legal: Political Ads, Social Media and #sponcon."
A new play by Professor Domnica Radulescu gives voice to local immigrants.
Atkinson will speak on “Where I am is Who I am: Plotting Spatial Demographics in Renaissance Florence.”
The conference is titled Ethics and Technology: Surveillance, Civil Rights, and Cyber-Security.
Quashie teaches black cultural and literary studies at Brown University.
Having played in every kind of venue imaginable, from coffee houses to world-class concert halls, Haimovitz creates music for every kind of audience.
The Rhodes Scholarship, which averages $70,000 per year and up to as much as $250,000, fully funds two to four years of study at the University of Oxford in England.
The celebration includes a film screening, a faculty panel and a trivia game. All events are free and open to the public.
Vaughan holds a bachelor’s degree in biology from Harvard University, a master’s degree in library science from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and a doctorate from Arizona State University. She succeeds John Tombarge, who will step down on June 30 after serving in the role for seven years. 
Tickets are not required.
A panel discussion will feature six leading business journalists who cover big financial and economic stories.
Shrayer will read from and discuss his new book, “A Russian Immigrant: Three Novellas.”
“Running Home” tells the story of humanitarian, accomplished middle-distance runner and coach Tony Ruiz.
Joukhadar will read from and discuss his new novel, “The Thirty Names of Night.”
Their talk is titled "The New Appendage: Cellphones in Cognitive and Behavioral Context."
The university’s first Black Future Leaders Experience Conference will take place on Feb. 8.
The concert is free and open to the public, and a reception will follow the performance.
Drum Tao’s stage is created through performances and expressions consisting of “Wadaiko-drums.”
All proceeds will support Campus Kitchen at W&L’s Backpack Program.
The title of Lynn Rainville’s talk is “Untold Stories of Founders, Leaders and Other Visionaries at W&L.”
Coddington’s book is titled “Aggregating the News: Secondhand Knowledge and the Erosion of Journalistic Authority.”
Marc Conner, provost and Jo M. and James M. Ballengee Professor of English at Washington and Lee University, has been named president of Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, New York. He will begin his new role on July 1, 2020.
Provost Marc Conner worked with John Callahan, the literary executor of the Ellison estate, to co-edit and publish the collection. 
The ceremony will take place Jan. 20 in the Senshin’an Tea Room.
Washington and Lee University presents the American Shakespeare Center’s “The Grapes of Wrath” on Jan. 25.
Tickets to the show can be ordered online or at the box office.
 Clifford Ando’s and Winnifred Fallers Sullivan’s lectures are free and open to the public.
Conner is provost and the Jo M. and James Ballengee Professor of English at Washington and Lee University. 
Paul Hanstedt, Director of Pedagogical Innovation and John P. Fishwick Professor of English at Roanoke College, has been named founding Director of the Center for Academic Resources and Pedagogical Excellence (CARPE) at Washington and Lee University.
After taking a course at Augusta Correctional Center, two W&L juniors helped to organize an exhibition at the university featuring artwork by artists who are incarcerated. The exhibit is entitled “Unfreedom of Expression.” 
Lena Hill, senior associate to the president, interim chief diversity officer, and associate vice president at the University of Iowa, has been named dean of the College at Washington and Lee University.
The three authors of “We Are Charleston” will talk on Feb. 15 at 6:00 p.m. in Stackhouse Theatre, Elrod Commons. It is free and open to the public.
Washington and Lee University has selected the Advanced Research Cohort (ARC) program as its next Quality Enhancement Plan (QEP). President Will Dudley and Provost Marc Conner announced the selection at the undergraduate faculty meeting on Feb. 5.
Allen’s speech is titled: “Why Hide Anything?” She is the fifth speaker in the year-long Questioning Intimacy series.
Dew’s speech, titled "The Making, and Unmaking, of a Racist," will precede the ODK induction.
Brownell, author of “Washington and Lee University, 1930-2000: Tradition and Transformation” will lecture on the history of W&L.
W&L's Marc Conner co-chaired a conference on Ellison at the University of Oxford.
Col. Ty Seidule '84, professor and head of the history department at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, will deliver W&L's Constitution Day lecture.