Wilson appears at number 14 on the list as she begins her presidency of the Association of American Law Schools.
Several members of the W&L Law faculty will present at the annual academic conference hosted by the Association of American Law Schools.
Brian Murchison addressed the Roanoke chapter of the Federal Bar Association to discuss notable cases from the 2022 term.
Professor Sarah Haan was quoted extensively in a Bloomberg Law news article on a challenge brought by business groups to a new SEC disclosure rule.
W&L Law is pleased to announce the following faculty joining the law school for the upcoming academic year.
In a new role focusing on pedagogy, W&L Law professor Jill Fraley will design faculty workshops to help the law school advance science-based teaching practices that further student learning and inclusivity.
Prof. Brian Murchison reviewed the last term term of the U.S. Supreme Court and the development of the "major questions" doctrine.
Law professor Mark Drumbl recently provided expert testimony to the drafting committee tasked with developing a protocol to the United Nations Convention to Eliminate Racial Discrimination.
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck Published "Movement Judges."
Law professor Mark Drumbl and Scholar-in-Residence Barbora Hola are working on a book that explores why people inform on others under authoritarian regimes.
The brief concerns the case of Dominic Ongwen, a Ugandan former child soldier and military commander, who is appealing a conviction for war crimes committed in the early 2000s.
Tax law expert Randle Pollard has joined the W&L Law faculty as the Rochelle and Thomas McN. Millhiser ‘81L Professor of Practice. 
The faculty of W&L Law are well represented at this year’s annual academic conference hosted by the Association of American Law Schools. 
Todd Rutkowski joined the Physics Department in the summer of 2020.
Bonnie Davis is a visiting professor of journalism at Washington and Lee University  
Hulya Dogan, visiting assistant professor of anthropology, joined W&L this fall. 
Daniel K. Afosah, assistant professor of chemistry, joined the Washington and Lee University faculty in 2021.
Visiting Assistant Professor Robert Elder joined Washington and Lee University's Physics and Engineering Department in fall 2020.
The two-part blog interview covered a wide range of topics, including child soldiers and ecocide.
One of Washington and Lee's new faculty members for 2020-21 is mathematics professor Sybil Prince Nelson, a 2001 graduate of W&L.
Earlier this month, economics professor Peter Grajzl gave an online presentation for the University of Oxford titled "A machine-learning history of English case law and legal ideas before the Industrial Revolution."
Insider trading is back in the news, although some would argue it never left.
Jeff Schatten, assistant professor of business administration at Washington and Lee University, said he launched the podcast in part because of student input.
Washington and Lee University’s Martin Davies, associate professor of economics, was appointed a member of the Fulbright Specialist Program for three years.
Professor Kevin Finch, who just released a new documentary, loves that W&L faculty have “this wonderful combination of academic credentials and practical experience.”
DeLaney’s talk is titled “W&L History: Traditions, Transformations and the Consequences of Change."
Jenefer Davies, associate professor of dance and theater, will be among approximately 25 fellows focusing on their own creative projects at the working retreat.
This associate dean of the college is interested in green chemistry, playing the flute and teaching her Science of Cooking class in Italy