Prof. Russ Miller published "Pandemic as Transboundary Harm: Lessons from the Trail Smelter Arbitration."
The undergraduate and law classes of 2020 got a chance to return to campus, experience a traditional in-person ceremony, and celebrate their graduation with friends and family at an event that had been postponed for more than a year amid a pandemic.
Coco Ellis Howe ’16 and Tani Greenspan ’16 created a successful online art gallery in the middle of a pandemic.
The May 17 event will highlight the exhibit, which is curated by sevens students at W&L as part of a Spring Term course, Seminar in Museum Studies.
Young alumna and current law student Cat Spencer '20, '23L shares her perspective on W&L and giving back.
The cast and crew of W&L’s upcoming Bentley Musical, “Little Women,” tackled a host of pandemic-related challenges to produce a film version of the show that will be screened for audiences March 30-April 2. 
Students and faculty in the W&L Music Department refused to let COVID-19 silence them, instead embracing creative protocols to continue making music together in person.
Norman Kim-Senior ’05 has created a COVID Memorial Walk and Run to foster community, support local nonprofits and mark the one-year anniversary of the pandemic.
Professors Kish Parella and Jill Fraley talk virtual book clubs and happy hours.
At Pfizer, Michael Benigno ’00 analyzed COVID-19 clinical data in the quest to develop a vaccine and antiviral therapy.
W&L’s Office of Inclusion and Engagement is expanding, reaching an unprecedented number of people with its programming.
Despite COVID-19, Jared Nickodem '20 was able to make it to Austria, where he is teaching English to students as part of the U.S. Teaching Assistant Program.
When her Critical Language Scholarship to China went virtual because of COVID, Kisker '21 got a six-week sampler of the country and its language through her computer screen.
Elliot Reza Emadian ’17 will teach a virtual master class in screendance, a form that merges cinematography and choreography.
In-person attendance at indoor W&L athletic events is still not possible because of COVID, but you can catch your favorite sports, athletes and coaches online this term.
At the start of the academic year, 17 first-year international students began their W&L experience in Scotland. Today, they are taking courses in Lexington as a unique group of friends.
COVID-19 may have forced events to go virtual this Fall Term, but that means some guest speaker talks and art exhibits can still be enjoyed online.
Policies adopted to combat COVID-19 led to novel changes in W&L's energy use in 2020.
Although W&L's annual Veterans Day gathering won't take place this year because of COVID-19, the university would like to salute all veterans.
The students in charge of Washington and Lee University’s WLULEX social media accounts are taking on an unusual challenge in 2020: finding ways to increase campus happiness during a pandemic.
The event is scheduled for Oct. 29 and 30 and will be hosted on Zoom.
Valeria Espinal '23L and Blake Kang '23L made it to Lexington despite many hurdles.
The challenges of student life during the COVID-19 pandemic are pervasive, but students—and the W&L staff supporting them—are rising to the occasion.
The COVID-19 pandemic has failed to hinder Washington and Lee University professors, who have adapted creatively to teach both in person and virtually this term.
At W&L, Mary North Jones has been able to pursue interests in both European history and medicine as she builds a foundation for her career.
The Entrepreneurship Summit will take place online on Friday and Saturday, Oct. 2–3.
The Washington and Lee University library is working to preserve documents relating to COVID-19 and diversity and inclusion discussions.
Six accomplished artists will give virtual master classes for the Washington and Lee community this academic year, covering a wide range of dance styles, from hip-hop to K-pop.
Testing sewage samples for the virus that causes COVID-19 is helping W&L to do targeted human testing and identify asymptomatic cases before they trigger large outbreaks.
Although Agbenohevi was able to travel to Utah for her job, the COVID-19 pandemic still played a role in her experience working in the financial crimes division.
“Global Ethics in the 21st Century: Opportunities and Challenges,” a collaboration between the Mudd Center for Ethics and the Center for International Education, kicks off Sept. 24 with a keynote address by former U.S. ambassador and Sewanee University President Reuben E. Brigety.
With the COVID-19 pandemic still spreading across the U.S., Washington and Lee Law has created an intricate but flexible back-to-school schedule that is based around the individual needs and the unpredictability of the future.
Dillon Myers ’14 and Alan Gibson ’70 are helping older adults overcome social isolation with a $2 million grant from the National Institutes of Health.
Returning to campus in these circumstances will challenge us all, but teaching and learning together is what we do best, and it has never been more important.
From installing hand sanitizer stations to adjusting HVAC systems, University Facilities staff have played an essential role in preparing the W&L campus for Fall Term 2020.
With help from Hillel International, Director of Jewish Life Maggie Shapiro Haskett has been able to successfully adapt programming to suit the new normal.
When we asked for help, you gave unselfishly.
Moataz Khalifa, assistant professor and director of Data Education, is collaborating on a non-invasive, early detection system of the virus.
Fifteen W&L faculty members and two alumnae have signed on to help teach a Fall Term course that will cover multiple aspects of the COVID-19 crisis.
This message summarizes the critical elements of our plan.
Jennifer Beam Dowd ’96 is co-managing a Facebook page, “Dear Pandemic,” to provide evidence-based advice about COVID-19 to a general audience.
Nick Watson '22 is spending the summer working on housing issues as part of his Shepherd internship with the Champlain Valley Office of Economic Opportunity in Vermont.
The June 24 hearing examined the issue of China’s legal responsibility for the global COVID-19 pandemic.
Washington and Lee University’s Student Affairs staff worked tirelessly to support students through the COVID-19 pandemic and the move to virtual instruction.
Chris Johnson ’00 uses his camera to document the COVID-19 crisis.
W&L was well prepared for the switch to virtual instruction, thanks to investments made long ago and the people of its Information Technology Services office.
Spring Term courses aim to provide innovative, one-of-a-kind educational experiences to W&L students. Online instruction during COVID-19 led to many new opportunities.
Amid the COVID-19 outbreak, some Washington and Lee University journalism students learned that the news stops for nothing — not even a global pandemic. 
Career and Professional Development Dean John Jensen '01 and his staff are busy providing career advice for Generals navigating a tricky economic landscape. 
Teresa Aires Rodrigues ’19 is on a mission to collaborate with children from around the world on a book project.
The virtual 5K will benefit the Rockbridge Area Relief Association.
Due to the lack of clarity around testing availability in the coming months, W&L will adopt a one-year test optional policy.
Eight of the 23 students enrolled in music instructor Shuko Watanabe Petty’s Piano I and II classes had no piano at home. When instruction went online, she found a way to help.
A new gift to the Reeves Museum of Ceramics documents how one artist is responding to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Russ Miller has joined two other Virginia law professors in an amicus curiae brief in a case challenging the Governor’s lockdown order as it applies to indoor shooting ranges.
“To See Color First,” the first comprehensive study of Louise Herreshoff Eaton’s bold and expressive watercolors, opens April 27 as a virtual exhibition.
Bruck is urging Virginia Governor Ralph Northam to grant early release to elderly, parole-eligible inmates due to concerns that prisons will soon become hotspots for the COVID-19 outbreak.
W&L’s admissions office is replacing in-person events canceled due to COVID-19 with personalized online outreach.
Utah Lt. Gov. Spencer Cox ‘01L is leading the state’s response to the COVID-19 outbreak.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, members of the Washington and Lee University community are finding ways to lend a hand with community relief efforts.
Should criminal legislation put in place to fight terrorism be used to fight the virus?
How will the international law principles established in the Trail Smelter Arbitration of the 1920s inform liability for the spread of COVID-19.
"The loss we felt at the suspension of campus life confirmed our love for this community. Our response was inspiring."
Amid a national shortage of PPE, W&L employees put the IQ Center’s 3D printers to work making face shields and mask strap holders for local health care workers.
Shelley Adams Gentle '99 has organized a Go Fund Me campaign to help feed children in her community.
Grading practices, hiring and the future of the bar exam are just a few of the areas impacted by the virus outbreak.
Strasser is urging residents of hard-hit Louisiana to be on the lookout for criminal activity.
After hearing about job loss following the Coronavirus outbreak, Eric Chaffin knew he wanted to do something to help.
As city manager of New Rochelle, New York, Chuck Strome ’80 is at the center of New York's pandemic.
Kaylee Hartung '07, a graduate of the W&L journalism program, contracted the virus that causes COVID-19 while covering the outbreak in Washington State
Amid the COVID-19 outbreak, Washington and Lee University’s CARPE and Academic Technologies offered expertise and resources to faculty preparing for online courses.
Linda Hooks, professor of economics and head of the W&L Economics Department, was interviewed by the News-Gazette.