The W&L Repertory Dance Company’s alumni-student dance performance in New York City’s Center for Performance Research returned after a four-year hiatus.
Stephanie Sandberg, assistant professor of theater, will discuss this year’s Nobel Prize in literature on Wednesday, Jan. 31 at 12:15 p.m.
Professor Chris Gavaler’s play “The Zombie Life” will open at Firehouse Theatre in Richmond, Virginia on Aug. 18.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company performance will stream for free online on March 25 and 26 at 7 p.m., March 27 at 6 p.m. and March 28 at 2 p.m.
Writer Branden Jacobs-Jenkins, who based this play on the anonymous 15th-century "Everyman," presents a new take on an old story and the old question of what happens when we cross over to the other side.
“Considering Matthew Shepard” tells the now infamous true story and aftermath of the kidnapping, torture and murder of Matthew Shepard near Laramie, Wyoming, in 1998. Tickets are required for the performance.
Washington and Lee University presents the American Shakespeare Center’s “The Grapes of Wrath” on Jan. 25.
 Call the Lenfest Center box office today at 540-458-8000 to reserve tickets.
The grant will help fund a project to bring professors from the six ACS dance departments to participating campuses and create a model for shared teaching.
With the support of faculty and fellow students, Charlotte Cook '19 acted in seven theater productions at W&L while juggling a major, two minors and other extracurricular activities.
BodyVox comes to Lexington for a one-night performance at the Keller Theatre at 7:30 p.m. on Jan. 10.
This production is open to the public, but tickets are required. 
 The show runs Oct. 25-27 at 7:30 p.m., and Oct. 28 at 2 p.m. in Keller Theatre on the W&L campus.
Take a peek behind the Lenfest curtain for 2018-19.
Che Malambo comes to the Keller stage for a one-night performance on April 26.
“The Mountaintop” comes to the Keller stage for a one-night performance.
Her poem "Nasty Woman" and performance were the inspiration for a student-created dance.
Jenefer Davies will talk about her recent book, “Aerial Dance: A Guide to Dance with Rope and Harness.”
Performances will run March 1-6.
Students play a key role in creating the visual styling for upcoming productions by the theater department. 
W&L's Theater, Dance and Film Studies, along with the Department of Music, present the Robert O. and Elizabeth M. Bentley fall musical, “The Addams Family, A New Musical.”
Dancer, choreographer, musician, mathematician: Elliot Emadian '17 has many roles, both on and off the stage.