After graduation, Tara Blackwell will be working at the Greater Chicago Legal Clinic (GCLC) as a Donoghue Fellow with the Homelessness Advice and Representation Program.
Arthur Vorbrodt is a senior counsel in the Transactions Practice Group at Foley & Lardner in Dallas.
Lillian Weitz '25L discusses her research with the UN Office of Drugs and Crime.
Noriya Shahadat is an associate in the Environmental and Mass Tort litigation group at McGuireWoods.
After graduation, Catalina Perez will head to Kennedys in Philadelphia, working in insurance coverage.
Colin Matthaei ‘24L spent the fall semester working in the Intellectual Property group at Nixon Peabody in Washington, D.C.
Following a clerkship and working as a prosecutor, Gretchen Panchik now practices in the areas of commercial litigation and insurance recovery.
Lexi Acosta '24L spent the fall semester as a judicial extern in the Roanoke City Juvenile and Domestic Relations Court.
Following his service in the JAG Corps, Christian Addison opened ASE Representation, a full-service sports and entertainment agency.
Jose Lopez '24L describes his clinical experience and trip to Mexico City to advise migrants and refugees on the U.S. asylum process.
Madison Howell ’24L spent the semester as an extern in the litigation office of the Plan Benefits Security Division.
Patrick Bolling is a principal at Woods Rogers, advising a variety of employers in traditional labor and employment.
Alexis Smith spent her summer working in the litigation department of the AARP Foundation.
Lauren Griffin is an associate at Alston & Bird LLP, working in the Intellectual Property Litigation group based in the Charlotte, North Carolina office.
Ana Laura Coria split her time interning at a small legal firm in Verona, Italy and the U.S. Attorney’s Office of the Southern District of West Virginia.
Barbara Merryman spent her summer clerking with the Juvenile Litigation Division of the Maryland Office of the Public Defender in Baltimore.
Jared Hunter spent the summer as an associate at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP in New York City.
Mariya Denisenko worked as a summer associate at Sidley Austin’s Chicago office.
Yardley Borten spent the summer as a legal intern at the Mid-Atlantic Innocence Project (MAIP) in Washington, D.C.
Carson Cox and Trey Smith, both new associates at Troutman Pepper in Richmond, are involved with a pro bono case concerning veteran's benefits.
Tom Boss worked as a summer associate with Williams & Connolly in Washington, D.C.
Arianna Kiaei spent her summer as a judicial intern at the U.S. Court of International Trade in New York.
Jessica Tracy is General Counsel at video hosting, sharing, and services platform provider Vimeo.
Negin Farahmand Wood is Senior Assistant Public Defender at Office of the Public Defender for Fairfax County.
Ryan Redd is an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Lubbock Division of the Northern District of Texas.
105 students and recent graduates received grants to support their work in public interest positions.
After graduation, Sam Romano will work as a Deputy District Attorney at the Denver DA’s Office.
Lexi Weber '23L discusses her year helping miners get federal benefits.
Josh Keruski ‘21L and Ainsley-Brooke Satterwhite ‘22L are both stationed at Fort Novosel in Alabama as members of the U.S. Army JAG Corps. 
According to the report, 96.6 percent of the class of 2022 secured a job that either requires bar passage or for which a J.D. degree is an advantage.
Mallory Kostroff ‘23L discusses her year as a student attorney in the Criminal Justice Clinic.
After graduation, Sierra Terrana will work in-house for IBM.
After graduation, Francis Morency will join Shumaker, Loop & Kendrick LLP in the firm’s Tampa Office as an associate in the Bankruptcy practice group.
W&L Law has announced the creation of a program to guarantee financial support for current students and graduates interested or serving in public interest and government careers.
After graduation, Alicia Ochsner Utt will be working at the King County Department of Public Defense in Seattle, Washington.
Ben Richie works for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in the Division of Corporation Finance’s Disclosure Review Program.
After graduation, Maddie Hawkins will be a corporate law associate with Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, LLP in New York. 
Winni Zhang '24L discusses her work in the Immigrant Rights Clinic, where she has been able handle important legal matters from start to finish.
After graduation, Grant McClernon will join the Washington, D.C. office of Kirkland & Ellis, working with the healthcare transactions team of the Private Equity group.
After graduation, Marshall Branch will join the U.S. Army JAG Corps.
Melissa May ’23L spent the fall semester as an extern in the Delaware Court of Chancery under Vice Chancellor Lori W. Will. 
Junior and Natey Kinzounza, who met at W&L Law, are both trial attorneys who honed their skills in moot court and summer externships.
After graduation, Sica Matsuda will be a litigation associate at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP in Washington, D.C and then a clerk for Judge Amy Berman Jackson at the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.
Ben Halligan '23L discusses his year as a student attorney in the Tax Clinic, helping clients resolve post-filing controversies with the IRS.
Shannon McGrath ‘23L spent the fall working in the criminal defense practice of the Brooklyn Defender Service.
Nikolaus Smith '23L spent the fall semester as a judicial extern for the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
This fall, Joseph Aminov '23L researched cryptocurrency and other emerging financial technologies with the law firm Pryor Cashman.
As a public defender, Chris Chino enjoys fighting for his clients in the "theatre of trial."
Nam Kang enjoys solving the puzzles in compliance investigations as a member of the regulatory team at Troutman Pepper.
Anika Maan spent her summer working for the United Nations: Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) in Suva, Fiji. 
Ella Bishop spent her summer as a judicial intern for Judge Lucy Inman at the North Carolina Court of Appeals and Justice Samuel Ervin IV at the North Carolina Supreme Court.
This summer, Jacob Wamsley worked as a summer associate with the in-house legal counsel at FedEx Ground’s corporate headquarters in Pittsburgh, PA.
Elizabeth Pruitt spent her summer working at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in Fort Worth, TX.
Maeve Harris spent her summer working for Judge Richard G. Latin of the Supreme Court of New York.
Buff will serve as the Housing Justice Fellow with Community Legal Services of Prince George’s County, Maryland.
Rob Hawes spent his summer working for Jones Day in Frankfurt, Germany.
Although clerking after law school was not part of her plan, Georgi Pisano Goetz '20L is about to start her third after stops in Baltimore and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
With his company NOCAP Sports, Casey Floyd '15L helps athletes and agents negotiate and transact NIL deals.
W&L Law alumnus Henry C. Leventis '03L has been tapped by President Joe Biden to serve as U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee.
The National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) has announced the appointment of Pranita A. Raghavan as NEH’s new Assistant Chair for Planning and Operations.
As global head of litigation for 3M, Courtney Enloe ‘97L is never bored. And that’s the way she likes it.
After graduation, Elena Schiefele will work for a law firm for a year and then clerk for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.
Katie Pauly will be working as a clerk on the Montana Supreme Court after graduation.
Sarah Childs will be working for Parr Brown Gee & Loveless in Salt Lake City, Utah, focusing on Intellectual Property. 
After graduation, Ainsley-Brooke Satterwhite will enter the Army JAG Corps.
Trey Smith will be working at Troutman Pepper in Richmond, joining the firm’s White Collar Litigation and Investigations practice group.
According to the report, 90.7 percent of the class of 2021 secured a full-time, long-term job that either requires bar passage or for which a J.D. degree is an advantage.
Lauren Robertson will be working with the litigation group at Holland & Knight LLP in the firm’s Tampa office.
Mari Gonzalez will be working in the corporate department at Latham & Watkins’s D.C. office.
Rich Gilliland will be working for Waller Lansden Dortch & Davis, LLP in the firm’s Austin, TX office, focusing on litigation.
After graduation, Gallagher is headed to New York to work in the state and local tax group at PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Phil Brown '85L blends history and science fiction in his inaugural novel "It Gives You Strength."
This summer, Kobie Crosley split his time interning with K&L Gates and the U.S. Steel Corporation in Pittsburgh, PA.
Kylan Memminger spent her summer as a tax intern in the Chicago office of Deloitte. She will return to work there after graduation.
This summer, T.J. Benedict '22L was a Summer Honors Law Clerk in the EPA’s Office of General Counsel.
During his summer position in the DC office of Sheppard, Mullin, Richter and Hampton, Jake Walker '22 did it all, and came away with a job offer.
Fletcher, who was publisher and editor-in-chief of Virginia Lawyers Weekly for more than 30 years, will lead a volunteer professional association with over 4000 members.
This summer, Nate Reynolds worked in a variety of practice groups for Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen, and Hamilton in New York.
This summer, Alex Castro '22L was a legal intern for El Centro de los Derechos del Migrante, a nonprofit that specializes in labor rights violations committed against migrant workers.
Kimberly Shi will be working for Clifford Chance LLP in the firm’s Washington, D.C. office, focusing on litigation and dispute resolution.
Rebecca Mitchell will be clerking on the Vermont Supreme Court for two years.
As the new General Counsel for the Carolina Hurricanes, Nigel Wheeler '15L has fulfilled his dream of a legal career in professional sports.
After his start as a prosecutor, Dan Collopy ’81L found his way into intellectual property law, and a career in Asia.
The latest turn in the winding career path of Christopher Riano ’10L finds him leading a national effort to improve civic education and engagement.
Andrew Dagen '22L got the chance to work in the United States Tax Court in Washington D.C. after it reopened virtually this fall.
Sheena Wang '21L, says that professors, alumni and older law students helped her secure a position with the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
As Senior Corporate Counsel at UKG Inc., Rachel Rosetti works on a wide variety of data privacy, data protection, and data security matters.
Patrick Wright used his experience during his 1L and 2L summers at Jones Day to learn the practice and make connections.
Although Agbenohevi was able to travel to Utah for her job, the COVID-19 pandemic still played a role in her experience working in the financial crimes division.
Helping plan the 2020 convention has required creativity and flexibility as the COVID-19 pandemic has required big changes to the event.
Sarah Van Horn will work as an Assistant Commonwealth’s Attorney in the Northampton County Commonwealth Attorney’s Office in Eastville, Virginia.
After graduation, Karen Vallejos-Corrales will work for Texas Rio Grande Legal Aid, an organization that provides free legal services to low-income people facing legal problems.
After graduation, Amanda Triplett will practice antitrust law as a trial attorney in the Health Care Division of the Federal Trade Commission’s Bureau of Competition in Washington, D.C.
After graduation, Lara McMahon will work for Vinson & Elkins in the firm’s Washington, D.C. office and is planning on a career in government investigations and white collar defense.
After graduation, Junior Ndlovu is headed to the Allen law firm in Fredericksburg, VA to serve as a plaintiff's attorney.
Charette is headed to the Boston office of Proskauer Rose, working on private equity deals with their Private Investment Funds group.
Freda Coleman-Jackson has joined the Office of Career Strategy (OCS) at Washington and Lee University School of Law as assistant director.
After graduation, Natalia Homchick will be working at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP in New York City in the firm’s corporate department.
According to the report, 92.7% of the class of 2019 secured a full-time, long-term job that either requires bar passage or for which a J.D. degree is an advantage.
Miller is currently clerking for Judge Lawrence VanDyke on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.