Dinner attendees are invited to sample an indigenous menu during a guided discussion on Nov. 14.
Campus Kitchen’s annual event series examines the many ways in which the food system interacts with issues of justice.
The cohort will present a virtual public lecture by Elizabeth Rule, assistant professor at American University, titled "Native Americans and Blood Quantum."
This year’s series revolves around revitalization of Indigenous lifeways and is titled "Indigenous in Rockbridge and the Interior: First Peoples, Land and Sustainability."
The Miranda Collection for Native American Library Acquisitions will feature books by Native American and Indigenous authors and literature on relevant topics.
The virtual talk, which is free and open to the public online, is titled "Naming Injustice: Charlene Teters (Spokane) and John Little (Standing Rock Sioux) on American Indian Mascots."
In honor of the Jewish "New Year of the Trees," W&L Hillel, the Native American Cohort and other campus community members will share poems about beloved lands on Jan. 27.
As part of the yearlong celebration of Native American Heritage, W&L will host a free virtual lecture with Katrina Phillips, an assistant professor of American Indian history at Macalester College and an enrolled member of the Red Cliff Band of Lake Superior Ojibwe. 
Washington and Lee University’s Native American Cohort invites the community to celebrate Native American Heritage with special events throughout the academic year.
As special events coordinator for Lee House, Kelly Fujiwara works with departments across campus to make sure that all events at the president's house are unforgettable occasions.
As Native American Heritage Month kicks off, University Collections of Art and History invites you to see artwork by Native American artists and featuring Native American people and cultures.
The Native American Cohort, which was created by faculty and staff with native heritage, aims to illuminate Native American history and culture, beginning with special events for Native American Heritage Month in November.