Taylor Gulotta '17 discusses the challenges and rewards of stage managing the fall 2016 Bentley Musical "The Theory of Relativity."
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Bogdan Bors '17 interns with Community Empowerment Solutions, a social entrepreneurship company focusing on microconsignment opportunities in Ecuador.
David Sugerman '99 combines medicine with social service, responding to crises around the world and training those on the front lines of disease control. He will give a public talk on his career in public health on Tuesday, Oct. 25, at 5:30 p.m. in Science A214. .
W&L physics professors Irina and Dan Mazilu join forces to mentor students and build a nanoscience program.
Ten years and nearly 263,000 meals after Ingrid Easton Wilson '06 founded  the Campus Kitchen at Washington and Lee, the program is still going strong.
Bonner Scholar Peyton Powers helps to plan the Fall Bonner Congress Meeting, taking place on W&L's campus Oct. 14-16.
Sophomores Pepe Estrada and Jason Renner participate in public policy discussions at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s Public Policy Conference in Washington, D.C.
Shepherd Intern Hannah Falchuk '18 works for the Bowery Residents' Committee in New York City.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Sonia Brozak '17 Travels to Florence to Study Art History.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Prakhar Naithani '17 conducts research at North Carolina State University's Forestry Biomaterials Department.
English major Kassie Scott '18 interns for an NGO focused on human rights and gender equality in Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
Engineering major Walker Brand '18 gets a taste of the defense industry at Hardwire Armor Systems.
Business administration and philosophy major Gordon McAlister '17 interns on the tech team at Sands Capital Management in Washington, D.C.
Co-directors of W&L Student Consulting keep their teams organized to deliver for the client.
Two first-year students take a gap year to live abroad and learn about a different culture -- and themselves.
With two new hotels, a half dozen new eateries, and a thriving music scene, Lexington has awakened
from her nap.
Lessons learned from W&L and the Marine Corps helped John Warren ’03 create Lima One Capital to make positive impact on neighborhoods.
Hit Show Inspires Spring Term Course on the Politics of Race and Gender.
Physics-engineering and computer science major Aswasan Joshi '17 interns in product development at Jobscience in San Francisco.
Kiki Martire is an English major with a minor in women's and gender studies from Baltimore, Md. A member of the Class of 2015, she traveled abroad to the South Pacific during her junior year.
"Faculty and staff have supported me in my pursuit of fostering a greater global perspective to bring back to Lexington."
"In my four years here, most of my 'classrooms' were not in a classroom."
"Being abroad for so long really changed my perspective on many aspects of W&L, and made me appreciate it so much more."
.
"W&L has allowed me to satisfy my need to wander."
"The one thing that will set you apart and help define you is how you cope with the challenges you face, learn from them and move on."
Computer Science major Rajwol Joshi discusses his experiences at W&L.
Economics professor returns to childhood home of Papua New Guinea to study the economics of resource-rich developing countries.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Franklin Wolfe '16 Travels to Europe to Gather Data for 3D Geologic Models.
John Gunn Scholar discusses her experience at Washington and Lee.
Washington and Lee's Outing Club travels to Nepal for eight-day Khumbu trek.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Sara Jones '18 Travels to India to Study Maternal and Child Health.
Washington and Lee Dedicates the Center for Global Learning.
Sage Timberline is a biochemistry major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Richmond, Va. A member of the Class of 2015, she interned at the Downtown Health Plaza in Winston-Salem, N.C.
Studio art major Leigh Stauffer '16 works as a membership and development intern at The High Museum of Art in Atlanta.
Emma Busse is a sociology and economics major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Charleston, W.Va. A member of the Class of 2015, she spent a summer in Camden, N.J., as a Shepherd Intern with the Cooper's Ferry Partnership, development firm that uses a multi-faceted approach to make Camden a better place to live, work, and invest.
Janey Fugate is a journalism and Romance languages major from Atlanta, Ga. She spent a summer interning as a reporter for El Nuevo Herald, the Spanish language newspaper in Miami.
Shepherd Intern at Bridges, St. Paul's School in Baltimore.
A Q&A with Volunteer Firefighter Steven Vranian '15.
Kiki Martire '15 studies challenges to women in political leadership in Samoa.
Emmanuel Abebrese is a biochemistry major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Woodbridge, Va. A member of the Class of 2015, he is a member of the Student Association for International Learning, the African Students Association and the Beta Beta Beta biology honor society. He is also the founder of Citadel Foundation for Kids, a nonprofit organization in Ghana and the U.S. that provides children with mentors, resources and training to prepare them for future global leadership and focuses on alleviating child poverty worldwide.
"W&L is a community that truly enables and encourages students to step outside of their comfort zones."
"The relationships I have made and strengthened while volunteering over the course of my time in Lexington are more important to me than I could have imagined."
Stuart Hogue '96 believes in the power of girls to end global poverty.
Nicole Gunawansa ’14 is passionate about delivering health care to marginalized patients.
Kristine Kilanski ’07 looked at the "invisible" side of Austin through the eyes of another to contribute to a book about inequality in the city.
After majoring in biochemistry, religion and music composition at W&L, Thomas Day took his skills to help people at their most vulnerable point in life. .
Psychology major Darby Lundquist '17 interns at Eastern Virginia Medical School.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Kayla Sylvester '17 Volunteers with a Local Literacy Council in South Dakota.
W&L Psychology professor Tyler Lorig reports from his AAAS fellowship on Capitol Hill.
Cynthia Cheatham '07 finds purpose in a variety of settings as she advocates for underrepresented communities.
Politics and Spanish major Noelle Rutland '17 interns for the Department of Defense.
Biology and Spanish major Harrison Westgarth '17 researches a rare congenital disease at the National Institutes of Health.
"W&L is about the people who make the traditions and community succeed."
David Robinson is an accounting and business administration major from Greenville, S.C. A member of the Class of 2015, he is chairman of the Student Judicial Council, a resident advisor for first-year students, a local elementary school volunteer and a member of @wluLex, W&L's student-run social media team.
Austin Eisenhofer is a business administration major and captain of the varsity football team. A lifelong racing fan, he spent the summer working for Penske Racing, Inc. as an athletics and team management intern.
Margaret McClintock is an English major with a minor in art history from Tunica, Miss. A member of the Class of 2015, she has been president of the Panhellenic Council, and Appalachian Adventure Trip leader, a member of the Contact Committee, the Student Faculty Hearing Board, the Student Affairs Committee and Traveller.
"A large part of my personal growth has stemmed from my involvement with W&L athletics."
Professor of Business Journalism .
Patrick O'Connor is a business administration major with a minor in education policy from Richmond, Va. A member of the Class of 2015, he is a member of the varsity basketball team, a first-year resident advisor and a Burish intern.
Director of International Education .
Associate Professor of History.
Lucy Wade Shapiro is an American history major from Memphis, TN. A member of the Class of 2015, she is president of the student-run Executive Committee, a peer counselor, a volunteer at the Rockbridge Area Health Center and a member of Tri Beta, WITS and Reformed University Fellowship.
New business law professor hopes to teach students to be better negotiators.
Bailey Russell is a studio art (photography) major from Huntsville, Alabama. A member of the Class of 2016, she is co-chair of the LEAD Banquet Planning Committe, a DJ at WLUR, a peer tutor and a member of Reformed University Fellowship and KLAZICS hip-hop dance group. .
Lenfest Center House Directors work behind the scenes to keep performances running smoothly.
"I've learned a diverse set of capabilities that has aided my transformation from a curious girl with a knack for business into a cognizant, concerned businesswoman aware of the challenges of this complex world."
"I have been challenged to step outside my comfort zone, encouraged to pursue my passions, and nurtured as a student, a leader and an individual."
John X. Miller '77, managing editor of Winston-Salem Journal, adds his name to the city's list of 'firsts.'
"We often do not realize the opportunities afforded to us as students at this prestigious university tucked away in such a beautiful town."
Seniors Teddy Corcoran and Stephanie Foster get students from around the country talking about ethics.
Accounting and Business Administration major lends her planning skills to the annual Souper Bowl benefit for the Campus Kitchen Backpack Program.
ODK National Leader of the Year Paqui Toscano talks about his approach to leadership.
For Bert Ponder '83, of Atlanta, and his daughter, Wyn '16, volunteering for the Annual Fund has become a family tradition. Bert serves as the chair of the Annual Fund, while Wyn is one of five lead class agents for the Class of 2016. .
"All around me, I was exposed to ideas and opinions I had not considered before."
Buddy LeTourneau '71 has served Washington and Lee as a class agent since 1996. Even after 21 years of volunteering for the Annual Fund, he is still motivated by what he terms the "passion and love" he feels for the university. .
Rising senior Steven Yeung was one of the youngest members of the Virginia delegation — and one of the youngest delegates nationwide — at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia.
Haley Miller '16, a lifelong lover of sports, works as a marketing intern for Adidas.
Mike Wilner '13 is on the fast track as a young entrepreneur.
Advertising Operations and Ad Research Intern at Hulu.
Professor Michael Laughy uses digital technology in the classroom to study ancient Greece.
Experiential marketing puts Gabrey Means '92 and her clients in unexpected places.
Mathematics major Matthew Kiser '16 interns at the recruiting software company Jobscience in San Fransisco.
Alessandra Catizone '15 and Eleanor Jones '15 provide prosthetic hands to amputees in El Salvador.
Haley Miller '16, a lifelong lover of sports, works as a marketing intern for Adidas.
Intern at Grow Marketing in San Francisco.
Elizabeth Robertson '01 takes childhood fascination with space to a career creating parts for rocket engines.
Brandt Wood '88 sweats the details to create one-of-a-kind venues and live music events.
Chemistry major Levi Warring interns with NASA.
A group of Washington and Lee students spent February break constructing a bio-sand water filter for a school in Belmopan, Belize.
Amber Cooper '12 brings her passion for creativity and communications to her marketing career.
Through teaching and practice, Cliff Holekamp '96 is reinventing St. Louis with entrepreneurship.
In the past three years, six graduating seniors have been named Venture for America fellows, and together they’re proving that W&L graduates don’t have to go to Silicon Valley to launch the next big business idea.
The General Flyers club draws on engineering skills and IQ Center resources to design and fabricate an unmanned, electric-powered, radio-controlled aircraft.
"One of the most important things about science, and any discipline, is communication."
"It is the strength of community and society that really makes W&L more than simply another great university."
"W&L has certainly taught me to expect the unexpected in a community of unique individuals."
Charlotte Sisk spent the summer working as a project management intern for the Saatchi & Saatchi global communications and advertising agency network in New York City.
Anna DiBenedetto '15 interns at HGTV magazine.
"A liberal arts education hones transferable skills."