Washington and Lee’s chapter of Remote Area Medical takes students to remote rural areas to provide medical services and gain valuable practical experience along the way.
Katie Yurechko ’24 blends her studies in computer science, philosophy, and poverty and human capability to make technology more equitable — and to connect communities.
Grant funding through W&L's Johnson Program allows student recipients to pursue passion projects and career development around the world.
Katie Yurechko ’24 presented on how algorithm awareness impacts algospeak use on TikTok.
Bernbaum is inspired by W&L’s emphasis on community-based learning.
Tetiana Kozachanska ’26 is taking full advantage of her first year at Washington and Lee.
Students in Professor Marisa Charley’s POV102 course helped local elementary school children tell stories this fall through photovoice research.
Aishwarya Vemagiri '25 hopes her summer research experience on diet-induced obesity will lead to a career in the medical field.
Kristina Ayers '25 is interning at a medical clinic for the homeless in Washington, D.C. through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty.
Smith O’Leary ’23 interviewed Bowen Spottswood ’18 to learn more about her dedication to Washington and Lee.
After her USTA program orientation in September, Shugart will team teach in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
James Ricks '21 is spending the summer working for The Oda Foundation in Nepal, where he is researching tobacco use and working with children to create a mural that represents health in their town.
Washington and Lee University senior Kathryn McEvoy ’19 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain for summer 2019. 
Mimi Miller '21 interviews Jennifer Smyrnos '12L  about practicing immigration law, a career that was inspired in part by her family heritage.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Midha Ahmad '21 and Sawera Khan '21 to spend the summer in Pakistan, where they compared alternative medicine to traditional treatment.
Monica Musgrave '18 is already double-majoring, but that didn't stop her from spending six-weeks in England studying two completely different subjects.
Working for the documentary filmmaking company Ark Media allowed Claire Hoffert '18 to exercise her research muscles and learn new skills.
Matt Lubas '18 spent the summer in Zacapa, Guatamala, working at a prosthetic clinic for the Range of Motion Project.
Lorena Hernandez Barcena '19 had an eye-opening summer internship with Harlem Children’s Zone, an education nonprofit in New York.
Shadowing doctors in Peru allowed Bryan D'Ostroph '19 to practice his Spanish and firm up future career plans in health care.
Through the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty, Tyra Barrett '18 interned at the Camden Coalition of Healthcare Providers in New Jersey.
Through the U.Va. Field School for Public Health Research, Julie Sklar '18 was able to work with a medical anthropologist and epidemiologist in South Africa this summer.
After spending Spring Term in Ethiopia, Jack Kaelin '19 is in Austin, Texas, helping refugees find a place to call home. 
Elena Diller '17 and Caroline Todd '17 saw a need for more perspective in academics — so they got to work.
Jake Roberts' study abroad trip started with an earthquake, and ended with him finding a passion for public health.
Zachary Taylor '17 and Austin Piatt '17 believe leadership, collaboration and responsibility are the keys to a successful conference.
A passion for asking questions has led Batsheva Honig ‘17 from America to Argentina to study women’s health in both countries.
Hannah Falchuk's passion for journalism has her reporting both in New York City and local Rockbridge.