In an article for the Columbia Law School Blue Sky blog, Parella explores the ways in which corporate stakeholders influence corporate actors.
The article looks at current instability involving corporate shareholder voting rights, examining it through a historical lens.
The article outlines the historical underpinnings of corporate cooperation, and expands upon the literature considering the structural, constitutional, and normative issues with corporate cooperation.
In an article for the ECGI blog, Haan challenges a central assumption of early 20th century corporate law.
Woody, a corporate law scholar, and Drumbl, an expert in international law, were recognized for their outstanding scholarly work.
The article, "Delegated Corporate Voting and the Deliberative Franchise," examines a shift in the shareholder voting process that could impact wealth maximization.
Woody is among 13 new members to join the Board and will serve a three-year term.
The article examines how corporations are affecting foreign policy by using economic means to reward or punish countries involved in conflict.
Professor Sarah Haan published "Women in Shareholder Activism."
Professor Sarah Haan was quoted extensively in a Bloomberg Law news article on a challenge brought by business groups to a new SEC disclosure rule.
Haan’s talk “The Democratization of Shareholding: Power and Passivity in American Corporate and Political Governance” will be held on Sept. 5.
Prof. Kish Parella published "International Law in the Boardroom."
Prof. Karen Woody published "Caremark's Butterfly Effect."
Recent articles by Sarah Haan on sexism in corporate governance were featured in a commentary by New York Times business and economic columnist Peter Coy.
Law professor Karen Woody breaks down some of the history behind Elon Musk’s relationship with Twitter and the controversy surrounding the takeover of the company.
Prof. Kish Parella published "Contractual Stakeholderism"
Prof. Sarah Haan published "Corporate Governance and the Feminization of Capital."
Washington and Lee law professor Karen Woody and the students in her Insider Trading seminar have launched a podcast that will explore the arc and evolution of insider trading over the last century.
Professor Carliss Chatman published "Corporate Family Matters."
Professor Cary Martin Shelby published "Profiting From Our Pain: Privileged Access to Social Impact Investing."
Professor Kish Parella was honored by the American Business Law Journal with the Hoeber Award for Excellence in Research.
On Friday, April 9, UCLA law professor Adam Winkler will deliver the annual Hendricks Lecture in Law and History. The title of Winkler’s talk is “How Corporations Became People.”
How are people like companies? Prof. Carliss Chatman explains in her new children's book, "Companies are People Too."
What does it mean to be an ethical lawyer in today's business environment? 
Ashley Waterbury, a third-year law student at Washington and Lee University, took first place in the 2015 Richmond Bar Association Business Law Section writing competition for a practice note on joint ventures between hospitals and insurers.
Christopher Bruner, professor of law at Washington and Lee University School of Law, has been named as the inaugural holder of the William Donald Bain Family Professorship of Corporate Law.