Arthur Vorbrodt is a senior counsel in the Transactions Practice Group at Foley & Lardner in Dallas.
Noriya Shahadat is an associate in the Environmental and Mass Tort litigation group at McGuireWoods.
Last year, Butler became the first Black judge in Virginia’s 24th District.
W&L alumni Chip Nunley '81 and Mark Peake ‘88L will also serve in leadership roles with the organization.
Following a clerkship and working as a prosecutor, Gretchen Panchik now practices in the areas of commercial litigation and insurance recovery.
Following his service in the JAG Corps, Christian Addison opened ASE Representation, a full-service sports and entertainment agency.
Patrick Bolling is a principal at Woods Rogers, advising a variety of employers in traditional labor and employment.
Lauren Griffin is an associate at Alston & Bird LLP, working in the Intellectual Property Litigation group based in the Charlotte, North Carolina office.
Following his entrepreneurial passions, John Henry gets comfort from his discomfort.
Jessica Tracy is General Counsel at video hosting, sharing, and services platform provider Vimeo.
Virginia’s, and perhaps the nation’s, oldest practicing lawyer.
Negin Farahmand Wood is Senior Assistant Public Defender at Office of the Public Defender for Fairfax County.
Ryan Redd is an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Lubbock Division of the Northern District of Texas.
Josh Keruski ‘21L and Ainsley-Brooke Satterwhite ‘22L are both stationed at Fort Novosel in Alabama as members of the U.S. Army JAG Corps. 
For W&L alumni Kevin Green ’07 and Amanda Green ’06, nature and nurture go hand-in-hand.
Ben Richie works for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in the Division of Corporation Finance’s Disclosure Review Program.
Junior and Natey Kinzounza, who met at W&L Law, are both trial attorneys who honed their skills in moot court and summer externships.
Janssen Evelyn ’06L uses resilience and intentional joy to find his purpose.
After a successful career in big law, Michael Cohen ’90L returns to his passions of poetry and painting.
As a public defender, Chris Chino enjoys fighting for his clients in the "theatre of trial."
Nam Kang enjoys solving the puzzles in compliance investigations as a member of the regulatory team at Troutman Pepper.
Although clerking after law school was not part of her plan, Georgi Pisano Goetz '20L is about to start her third after stops in Baltimore and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
With his company NOCAP Sports, Casey Floyd '15L helps athletes and agents negotiate and transact NIL deals.
The National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) has announced the appointment of Pranita A. Raghavan as NEH’s new Assistant Chair for Planning and Operations.
As global head of litigation for 3M, Courtney Enloe ‘97L is never bored. And that’s the way she likes it.
Phil Brown '85L blends history and science fiction in his inaugural novel "It Gives You Strength."
W&L Law alumnus Victor O. Cardwell ‘87L has been elected to serve as the 134th President of the Virginia Bar Association (VBA). Cardwell’s election marks the first time a Black lawyer has served as VBA President.
Allison McJunkin ‘04L helps kids take flight through mentoring program.
Griffin currently serves as the Associate Dean for Strategic Initiatives and a professor of law at Mercer University, where he has taught since 2006.
As Senior Corporate Counsel at UKG Inc., Rachel Rosetti works on a wide variety of data privacy, data protection, and data security matters.
Madeline Morcelle '15L is lobbying congress, drafting bills, analyzing legislation, developing strategies to safeguard health access, and more.
A panel discussion will feature six leading business journalists who cover big financial and economic stories.
This year’s event focuses on Exploring Careers and Issues in Social Innovation and Responsible Leadership.
The reading will be Oct. 18 at 8:15 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. 
Brett Strohsacker ’06, who played soccer and majored in mass communications at W&L, has worked his way to the top of the Philadelphia Eagles PR team.
David Sugerman '99 combines medicine with social service, responding to crises around the world and training those on the front lines of disease control.