A new gift to the Reeves Museum of Ceramics documents how one artist is responding to the COVID-19 pandemic.
“To See Color First,” the first comprehensive study of Louise Herreshoff Eaton’s bold and expressive watercolors, opens April 27 as a virtual exhibition.
This plate, a recent gift to W&L's Reeves Museum of Ceramics from local collectors Joan and Jay Crawford, provides a window into Chinese culture and the material lives of one of Virginia’s most prestigious families.  
As Native American Heritage Month kicks off, University Collections of Art and History invites you to see artwork by Native American artists and featuring Native American people and cultures.
The piece explains Rainville's role at Washington and Lee and the work she is doing on campus.
A jar in the Reeves Collection tells the story of an African-American craftsman in Antebellum America.
On March 1, W&L’s University Collections of Art and History will open its newest exhibit, "Breaking the Chains: Ceramics and the Abolition Movement."
University Collections of Art and History recently purchased prints by iconic American artists Thomas Hart Benton and James Abbott McNeill Whistler, and they are already being incorporated into courses in art and art history. 
Late professor emeritus Harry Pemberton is the first W&L faculty member to be recognized as an Honored Benefactor.
“An Embassy from the East-India Company of the United Provinces to the Grand Tartar Cham Emperor of China" tells the story of a trade delegation sent from the Dutch East India Company to China in 1655-57.
This free family program is geared for ages 7-11; children must be accompanied by an adult.
This exhibit, which is free and open to the public, focuses on the work of two contemporary Native American potters from the Southwest, Lorraine Gala Lewis and LaDonna Victoriano. 
David Cox, professor of history at Southern Virginia University, will give Lee Chapel’s fall lecture on Oct. 8 at 12:15 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
Dr. Ling-ting Chiu, a Fulbright Scholar and assistant professor of history at Soochow University in Taiwan, spent the summer at Washington and Lee studying the works of former W&L professor and artist Professor I-Hsiung Ju.
After Tucker Hall was restored, University Collections of Art & History worked to find the perfect art to adorn its walls — including four bas-relief sculptures that hung on campus more than 100 years ago.
University Collections teamed up with the Art History and Chemistry departments at W&L to examine a tiny painting surrounded by mystery.
In the first installment of our new series, Ron Fuchs tells the story behind a 4,000-year-old jar in Watson Pavilion.