In an article on OpinioJuris, Drumbl discusses the legacy of the Special Court for Sierra Leone and its residual function.
In an article for the Columbia Law School Blue Sky blog, Parella explores the ways in which corporate stakeholders influence corporate actors.
The article looks at current instability involving corporate shareholder voting rights, examining it through a historical lens.
Professor Mark Drumbl participated in a conference examining the legacy of the international court that prosecuted war crimes.
The article outlines the historical underpinnings of corporate cooperation, and expands upon the literature considering the structural, constitutional, and normative issues with corporate cooperation.
In an article for the ECGI blog, Haan challenges a central assumption of early 20th century corporate law.
The article takes the form of a fictional narrative evoking George Orwell's classic novel to examine flaws in the legal system.
A biotech executive made $120,000 when he bought stock options on a drug company that he did not work for. 
Woody, a corporate law scholar, and Drumbl, an expert in international law, were recognized for their outstanding scholarly work.
The article examines confidentiality agreements that operate to prevent employees from accepting new positions under threat of breach of contract.
Hasbrouck reviewed "Shielded: How the Police Became Untouchable" by Joanna Schwartz.
The article, "Delegated Corporate Voting and the Deliberative Franchise," examines a shift in the shareholder voting process that could impact wealth maximization.
The article examines how corporations are affecting foreign policy by using economic means to reward or punish countries involved in conflict.
Several members of the W&L Law faculty will present at the annual academic conference hosted by the Association of American Law Schools.
Professor Alan Trammell published "The False Promise of Jurisdiction Stripping."
Professor Sarah Haan published "Women in Shareholder Activism."
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck published "Democratizing Abolition."
Brian Murchison addressed the Roanoke chapter of the Federal Bar Association to discuss notable cases from the 2022 term.
Prof. Kish Parella published "International Law in the Boardroom."
Prof. Karen Woody published "Caremark's Butterfly Effect."
Prof. Josh Fairfield published "Making Virtual Things."
Beth Belmont has been named Director of Experiential Education, and Brandon Hasbrouck will lead the Frances Lewis Law Center.
Prof. Matt Boaz published "Speculative Immigration Policy."
Prof. Russ Miller published "Pandemic as Transboundary Harm: Lessons from the Trail Smelter Arbitration."
Seaman joined the Washington and Lee Law faculty in 2012.  His research and teaching interests include intellectual property, property, and election law and voting rights.
Alan Trammell will present "The False Promise of Jurisdiction Stripping," which is forthcoming in the Columbia Law Review.
Baluarte will teach in the Refugee Law Clinic and assist in the development of clinical legal education more broadly at the Iberoamericana University.
Judge Carlton Reeves of the U.S. District for the Southern District of Mississippi cited Hasbrouck's article "The Antiracist Constitution."
As an international research fellow, Professor Parella will help research the role of social evaluations in business and society. 
Professor Carla Laroche published "Black Women and Voter Suppression."
Part memoir/part biography, the book tells the story of the Reverend Russ Ford, who served as the head chaplain on Virginia’s death row for eighteen years.
The scholarship of Prof. Brandon Hasbrouck was downloaded nearly 13,500 times during 2022, placing him 16th on a list combining scholars from all categories of legal research.
Professors Joshua Fairfield and Kish Parella were recognized for their outstanding scholarly work.
Recent articles by Sarah Haan on sexism in corporate governance were featured in a commentary by New York Times business and economic columnist Peter Coy.
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck published "Reimagining Public Safety."
Prof. Brandon Hasbrouck published "Movement Constitutionalism." 
Prof. Tim MacDonnell published "Making An Offer That Can’t Be Refused: The Need For Reform In The Rules Governing Informed Consent And Doctor-Patient Agreements."
Prof. Brandon Hasbrouck published "On Lenity: What Justice Gorsuch Didn’t Say" examining the decision in Wooden v. United States.
Professor James Moliterno's recent publications include the third edition of "Global Issues in the Legal Profession."
Professor J.D. King published "Juries, Democracy, and Petty Crime."
Professor Carliss Chatman published "We Shouldn't Need Roe."
Professor Heather Kolinsky published "Storytelling, The Sound of Music, And Special Teams: Revisiting Some Basic Legal Writing Techniques With Fresh Eyes."
Prof. Alex Klein published "When Police Volunteer to Kill."
Professor David Baluarte published "Refugees Under Duress: International Law and the Serious Nonpolitical Crime Bar."
Prof. Matt Boaz published "Practical Abolition: Universal Representation as an Alternative to Immigration Detention."
Prof. Josh Fairfield published "'You Keep Using That Word': Why Privacy Doesn’t Mean What Lawyers Think."
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck Published "Movement Judges."
Prof. Chris Seaman, along with coauthor Thuan Tran '21L, published “Intellectual Property and Tabletop Games.” 
Prof. Josh Fairfield published “Governing the Interface Between Natural and Formal Language in Smart Contracts.”
Law professor Karen Woody breaks down some of the history behind Elon Musk’s relationship with Twitter and the controversy surrounding the takeover of the company.
Prof. Kish Parella published "Contractual Stakeholderism"
Prof. Sarah Haan published "Corporate Governance and the Feminization of Capital."
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck published "The Antiracist Constitution."
Law professor Mark Drumbl and Scholar-in-Residence Barbora Hola are working on a book that explores why people inform on others under authoritarian regimes.
Professor Jill Fraley published "Against Court Packing, or a Plea to Formally Amend the Constitution."
Professor Carliss Chatman published "Corporate Family Matters."
A new book from W&L Law professor Johanna Bond pulls together decades of research to address identity discrimination.
Professor Cary Martin Shelby published "Profiting From Our Pain: Privileged Access to Social Impact Investing."