Washington and Lee University’s Special Collections and Archives has been working with the 2024 Mock Convention to debut an exhibit showcasing extraordinary items from past conventions.
Rob Fure and Tom Camden ’76, who both retired in June, opened new doors to intellectual discovery for the W&L community.
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join conversations with W&L's expert faculty about their teaching, research and passion projects.
Professor of History Mikki Brock’s Spring Term course explores our fascination with the supernatural.
How a handwritten draft of one of the most significant defenses of religious freedom in American history was rediscovered in Lexington, Virginia.
A class of history students from Powhatan High School spent a day in Washington and Lee Special Collections and Archives, where they got to work with original materials from the vault.
A series of hour-long interviews with the late Ted DeLaney ’85, professor history of emeritus, is now available online.
Debris from the aftermath of the Hiroshima bombing found its way to W&L’s Special Collections, where it heightened one class’s understanding of a powerful Japanese novel.  
The Washington and Lee University library is working to preserve documents relating to COVID-19 and diversity and inclusion discussions.
An extremely rare printing of the U.S. Constitution has been restored and returned to Washington and Lee Special Collections just in time for Constitution Day. 
A letter in W&L's Special Collections, written by former English professor George Harding Foster to Harrison Kinney '47, provides a glimpse of the inner workings at Disney Studios in the 1950s.
MaKayla Lorick '19 is collecting oral histories from African-American alumni, faculty and staff as part of a project that aims to include those missing perspectives in Washington and Lee University's history of desegregation and integration.
The will, a favorite piece for use in accounting and taxation classes at W&L, reveals much about Washington's character and views.
Washington and Lee's Special Collections is an educational resource fit for a queen, but this 543-year-old book really has royal connections.
The Benjamin Borden Grant, the original grant for the land on which W&L now sits, turns 279 this month. It has been conserved and is stored in W&L's Special Collections.
The exhibition, “The Mock Convention Through the Years,” is on display on the first floor of Leyburn Library between Sept. 15-29.
Charles Philip Blackledge ’38 gifted an important and fascinating collection of Roman coins to Washington and Lee Special Collections.
Dr. Ling-ting Chiu, a Fulbright Scholar and assistant professor of history at Soochow University in Taiwan, spent the summer at Washington and Lee studying the works of former W&L professor and artist Professor I-Hsiung Ju.
Washington and Lee's Special Collections contains a rare volume of poetry by Wheatley, the first published African-American poet. 
Two tiny, leather-bound volumes in Special Collections feature signatures and bookplates that make them extraordinarily rare.
Four Martin Luther tracts housed in W&L's Special Collections were fully restored in time for the 500th anniversary of the start of the Protestant Reformation.
A Bible in the Special Collections vault turned out to be the 1642 New Testament that belonged to France’s King Louis XIII.
Chandler Wickers '18 has spent her summer as a researcher in Special Collections, where she has been exposed to fascinating materials and learned how professors and students can take greater advantage of the collection.
The life mask is perhaps the single most valuable item in a collection of more than 1,000 Dickey items in W&L Special Collections.
Washington and Lee University owns a first edition of one of the most important — and controversial — books ever written.
This seemingly ordinary subscription list from 1776, which has long been a part of W&L Special Collections, has a fascinating connection with American independence.
In the first installment of this new series, Tom Camden offers the story of a Sumerian clay tablet that is the oldest recorded document in W&L's Special Collections.
Ward Briggs ’67 has memorialized his longtime friend, writer James Dickey, with a large donation of Dickey materials to Washington and Lee Special Collections.
One hundred years ago this month, Sept. 23, 1916, a young man named Kiffin Rockwell became the first alumnus of Washington and Lee University to give his life during World War I — not as an American doughboy, as you might expect, but as a founding member of the French air squadron known as the Escadrille Americaine, or the Lafayette Escadrille.
Researchers now have an easy way to comb through the 1,000 collections of manuscripts and photographs at Washington and Lee University’s Special Collections and Archives. “The department has launched its first online search tool, which will enable researchers to discover these treasures,” said Alston Cobourn, digital scholarship librarian at W&L.
Coinciding with the 150th anniversary of General Robert E. Lee's surrender at Appomattox on April 9, 1865, Washington and Lee University has received the gift of a rare collection of 29 vintage prints and original graphics depicting the historic event. It is arguably the most comprehensive collection of such images — all of immaculate museum quality and including two original works by artists of the period.
Old account ledgers might seem a dry subject to most people, but to a class at Washington and Lee University they offered a rare opportunity to shine new light on local history.
Dating to its founders&#039; first amateur performance of Antony and Cleopatra in 1985, the American Shakespeare Center (ASC), now one of the country&#039;s leading performers of Shakespeare, has kept a careful record of everything associated with the plays it staged. The center&#039;s archives include directors&#039; notes, prompt books, set designs, posters, fliers, still and candid [&hellip;]
Six Civil War diaries written by a Confederate soldier and providing a first-hand account of the war in Virginia are now part of Special Collections at Washington and Lee University&#039;s Leyburn Library, the result of a multi-donor gift to the University. Archivists and researchers would be delighted enough over this newly discovered set of diaries. [&hellip;]