Arthur Vorbrodt is a senior counsel in the Transactions Practice Group at Foley & Lardner in Dallas.
Toles, a member of the W&L Board of Trustees, was recently named a fellow of one of the premier legal associations in North America.
Noriya Shahadat is an associate in the Environmental and Mass Tort litigation group at McGuireWoods.
Last year, Butler became the first Black judge in Virginia’s 24th District.
Following a clerkship and working as a prosecutor, Gretchen Panchik now practices in the areas of commercial litigation and insurance recovery.
Following his service in the JAG Corps, Christian Addison opened ASE Representation, a full-service sports and entertainment agency.
Patrick Bolling is a principal at Woods Rogers, advising a variety of employers in traditional labor and employment.
An anonymous donor will match up to $2 million for student scholarship funds raised during the Leading Lives of Consequence campaign.
Lauren Griffin is an associate at Alston & Bird LLP, working in the Intellectual Property Litigation group based in the Charlotte, North Carolina office.
Following his entrepreneurial passions, John Henry gets comfort from his discomfort.
Jessica Tracy is General Counsel at video hosting, sharing, and services platform provider Vimeo.
A Q&A with Law Dean Melanie Wilson
Virginia’s, and perhaps the nation’s, oldest practicing lawyer.
Negin Farahmand Wood is Senior Assistant Public Defender at Office of the Public Defender for Fairfax County.
Ryan Redd is an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Lubbock Division of the Northern District of Texas.
David “Freedi” Friedfeld ‘83L was honored with the Outstanding Alumnus Award. Nan Hannah ‘93L, Tom Mitchell ‘93L, and Kit Thomas ‘18L were recognized for volunteer work.
Ben Richie works for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in the Division of Corporation Finance’s Disclosure Review Program.
Junior and Natey Kinzounza, who met at W&L Law, are both trial attorneys who honed their skills in moot court and summer externships.
Lisa Hedrick, partner and chair of the M&A and Finance practice group at the firm Hirschler Fleischer, has been recognized for her work in the field.
The Honorable Robert E. Payne, senior United States District Court Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia (EDVA), has been awarded the prestigious Harry L. Carrico Professionalism Award for 2023 by the Virginia State Bar Section on Criminal Law.
‘Irreverence With Some Measure Of Reverence’
Janssen Evelyn ’06L uses resilience and intentional joy to find his purpose.
After a successful career in big law, Michael Cohen ’90L returns to his passions of poetry and painting.
As a public defender, Chris Chino enjoys fighting for his clients in the "theatre of trial."
Nam Kang enjoys solving the puzzles in compliance investigations as a member of the regulatory team at Troutman Pepper.
Buff will serve as the Housing Justice Fellow with Community Legal Services of Prince George’s County, Maryland.
Although clerking after law school was not part of her plan, Georgi Pisano Goetz '20L is about to start her third after stops in Baltimore and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Governor Glenn Youngkin has proclaimed July 31, 2022 to be The Honorable Paul S. Trible, Jr. Day in the commonwealth of Virginia.
With his company NOCAP Sports, Casey Floyd '15L helps athletes and agents negotiate and transact NIL deals.
W&L Law alumnus Henry C. Leventis '03L has been tapped by President Joe Biden to serve as U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee.
The National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) has announced the appointment of Pranita A. Raghavan as NEH’s new Assistant Chair for Planning and Operations.
As global head of litigation for 3M, Courtney Enloe ‘97L is never bored. And that’s the way she likes it.
Bobby Hatten '72L was honored with the Outstanding Alumnus Award. Jim Seevers '97L and Bo Mahr '17L were recognized for volunteer work.
Phil Brown '85L blends history and science fiction in his inaugural novel "It Gives You Strength."
Allison McJunkin ‘04L helps kids take flight through mentoring program.
John Sicilian ‘85L, Andy Lee ‘90L and Katie Waibler 15L were honored for their accomplishments and contributions to the law school.
Alex Flachsbart, ‘15L, traded corporate law for the opportunity to revitalize impoverished areas of Alabama.
Greg Stillman '74L was honored with the Outstanding Alumnus Award. Stu Nibley '75, '79L and Randall Miller '14L were recognized for volunteer work.