‘Wes Bound: The Genius of Wes Montgomery’ will begin airing nationwide Feb. 1.
Martin Baron’s talk will be held on Feb. 13 and is open to the public.
The New York Times investigative reporters will give a public talk on Jan. 24 at 5 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater, followed by a book signing.
Kevin Finch is nearing completion of his film documentary on celebrated jazz guitarist Wes Montgomery.
Allen will give a public talk on the W&L campus on Oct. 31 at 4 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater.
Professor Aly Colón was interviewed in an article titled “As America watched Jan. 6 hearing, Fox viewers heard Tucker Carlson’s alternate reality.”
Bonnie Davis is a visiting professor of journalism at Washington and Lee University  
The award-winning journalist covered some of the most important stories of the 20th century.
The Feb. 24 talk, which is free and open to the public to view online, is titled “A Conversation with David Fahrenthold of the Washington Post: Unraveling the Troubled, Secretive Trump Empire.”
As city manager of New Rochelle, New York, Chuck Strome ’80 is at the center of New York's pandemic.
A panel discussion will feature six leading business journalists who cover big financial and economic stories.
As director of communications for Mock Con 2020, Annie Lentz '20 applies her love of mass communications and politics to promote and protect a 112-year-old legacy.
“Running Home” tells the story of humanitarian, accomplished middle-distance runner and coach Tony Ruiz.
Coddington’s book is titled “Aggregating the News: Secondhand Knowledge and the Erosion of Journalistic Authority.”
The conversation will address how the news media grapples with ethics in confrontational times. 
Maya Lora has always wanted to be a storyteller for public good. This summer, she did just that as a reporting intern for her hometown paper, the Miami Herald.
The screening, which is free and open to the public, will advance the Lexington conference of the South Sudanese Diaspora Network for Reconciliation and Peace (SSDNRP). 
As the only intern for the Arena Football League's communications coordinator, journalism major Jimmie Johnson '20 has been able to pitch and create his own multimedia content.
Students took first place in three categories in the Society of Professional Journalists’ regional college journalism competition.
Hannah Denham, ’20, is one of the top 20 finalists in the Hearst Journalism Awards’ enterprise writing contest.
“An Afternoon with Rebecca Traister,” on Feb. 11 at 5:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, is free and open to the public.
Hannah Denham '20 has combined business journalism with women and gender studies at W&L to create a liberal arts education that suits her interests and ambition.
The discussion will take place Nov. 9. at 5:30 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater.
In his talk, which is free and open to the public, Barstow will discuss his coverage of the Trump administration and other projects.
In the op-ed, Professor Kevin Finch argues that Virginians should end the debate about debates.
Professor Kevin Finch, who just released a new documentary, loves that W&L faculty have “this wonderful combination of academic credentials and practical experience.”
In addition, stories by two students were chosen as finalists in the SPJ Mark of Excellence national competition.
In a recent visit to campus, Alisha Laventure ’09, a television news anchor in Dallas, told journalism students about how a national story became personal. 
Laventure will speak on the ethical journalist’s role in the modern media age.
Over the years, her reporting from disadvantaged communities in the United States and abroad has been awarded a Pulitzer Prize, a MacArthur Genius Grant and a National Magazine Award for Feature Writing.
As public information specialist for the airport in Austin, Texas, Kaela Harmon ’05 combines data analysis with creativity for the aviation industry.
Katrina Lewis' business reporting internship took her to the Boston Business Journal, where she covered real estate news and development.
Working for the documentary filmmaking company Ark Media allowed Claire Hoffert '18 to exercise her research muscles and learn new skills.
Ellen Kanzinger's summer internship allowed her to work on films for the nonprofit GroundTruth Project in Boston, Massachusetts.
Meet Ashley Faulkner ‘18, a University Ambassador with a passion for showing others why she loves W&L