These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university.
The third-year assistant women's basketball coach was named to the WBCA Thirty Under 30 List.
The former executive director of ArtPower at the University of California, San Diego will begin his new role in July.
Hafsa Oubou’s essay “Churches Can, Mosques Can’t” appears in the January edition of Canopy Forum.
The assistant professor of French will utilize the scholarship to perform research in Paris.
Holly Pickett’s book explores the stories of several serial converts in early modern England.
Chris Dobbins officially assumed the position at the organization’s 2024 conference last month.
Washington and Lee’s Center for International Education awarded deBuchananne funding to study Arabic at the University of Jordan this summer. 
Dennie will present her research on “Southern Black Feminisms at the Turn of the Century” March 20 in the Watson Galleries. 
Stillo’s lecture will be held March 15 in the Harte Center Gallery.
“Myth, Magic, and Madness” will feature a dynamic lineup of creative workshops, dramatic readings and staged productions March 21-22.
Anthony Edwards’ article focuses on the 19th-century Orientalist Gregory M. Wortabet.
The first-year biology professor co-authored a paper titled “Sponge-derived matter is assimilated by coral holobionts.” 
The esteemed Buddhist philosopher will host a talk in Stackhouse Theater on March 7.
The W&L professor of politics will present on this year’s Nobel Peace Prize winner, Narges Mohammadi, on March 8 in Leyburn 128.
Generals’ mentor garners top conference honor after leading both sports to conference titles.
W&L’s assistant director of academic resources completed a rigorous program to earn the International Coaching Federation’s ACC certification.
Cohen’s talk, “Music as Witness: a Composer Commemorates the Holocaust,” will be held at 4 p.m. on Feb. 13 in Hillel 101.
The assistant professor of history will hold her talk on Feb. 7 at noon in the Harte Center Gallery.
The article focuses on the geology and topology behind optimal shapes.
‘Wes Bound: The Genius of Wes Montgomery’ will begin airing nationwide Feb. 1.
‘White before whiteness in the late Middle Ages’ will launch via Zoom on Jan. 25 from 5-6:30 p.m.
The engineering professor will perform research related to gastrointestinal motility over the next three years in New Zealand.
Newly promoted faculty members will present their research in a PechaKucha format on Jan. 30.
The current director of the Center for Teaching and Learning at Quinnipiac University will begin his new role effective June 1.
Professor and collection strategist named a Library Journal Reviewer of the Year 2023.
The second-year faculty member co-authored a paper analyzing the effect of CEO age on financial reporting quality and clawback provisions.
Stephanie Sandberg, assistant professor of theater, will discuss this year’s Nobel Prize in literature on Wednesday, Jan. 31 at 12:15 p.m.
The upcoming screening is the second installment in the DeLaney Center’s ongoing film series and will be shown on Thursday, Jan. 18 at 5 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater.
Politics professor Clyde Wang offers perspective on government intervention to combat declining birth rates in China.
The professor of cultural anthropology will serve a dual role leading Community-Based Learning and the SHECP Consortium.
Kumudu Gamage will use the funds for professional development and summer research.
Elliott King was elected to the position at the organization’s 2023 conference.
First-year earth and environmental science professor co-authored a paper titled “Monogenetic volcanoes as windows into transcrustal mush.”
The Department of Earth and Environmental Geoscience provides students with the chance to expand their learning beyond the classroom by attending top national conferences.
Yurechko ’24 is the university’s first Marshall Scholar.
Anthony Edwards illustrates his case study that focuses on Khalīl al-Khūrī, a central figure of the Nahḍa.
Professor Lisa Greer has been taking students to Belize since 2011 to study the thriving reef corals located there.
Mohamed Kamara’s book titled “Colonial Legacies in Francophone African Literature” hits bookshelves Dec. 15.
The mathematics professor discusses the differences between various necktie knots.
The associate professor of art history will serve as the Mudd Center Director for three years beginning July 1, 2024.
The classics professor’s Ancient Graffiti Project digital resource was also mentioned in the article that focuses on ancient graffiti works.
The Spanish professor appears as a faculty expert in the film that debuted at the Virginia Film Festival last month. 
Blue Marble published a conversation with Aly Colón about providing balanced coverage of a crisis.
Bottoms, the former mayor of Atlanta, will headline the weeklong programming on campus.
The second-year faculty member co-authored a paper analyzing the relation between institutional ownership and earnings management. 
Ryan Brindle was presented the Rising Star Award and Dave Pfaff received the Excellence in Instructional Technology Award.
First-year biology professor co-authored a paper titled “Microbiome environmental shifts differ between two co-occurring octocoral hosts.” 
This year’s first film, “Southern Hoops: A History of SEC Basketball,” will be shown Nov. 4 in Stackhouse Theater.
Tom McClain, assistant professor of physics, will discuss this year’s Nobel Prize in Physics on Wednesday, Nov. 1.
Arabic professor Anthony Edwards recently published a paper titled “Becoming the Muʿallim: how tradition and innovation made a Nahḍa icon.”
Krzysztof Jasiewicz authored “Roads to and from Democracy” from a collection of papers written over the course of 40 years.
Lesley Wheeler’s essay “Ghost Tour” was featured in a guest-edited folio for the Summer 2023 issue.
The professor has also published two literary works in recent months. 
Lucy Worthy ’24 assisted in the research and helped publish the results alongside two W&L alumni. 
The premiere event will be followed by a student-led discussion about their experiences and the creative journey in producing the films.
Karena Gill handles all aspects of the event slated to be held Sept. 27-30 in Washington, D.C.
Katie Yurechko ’24 presented research related to content creators circumventing TikTok’s content moderation algorithms.
Brainard’s talk “Does Artificial Intelligence Make Human Creativity Obsolete” will be held Sept. 26 at 5 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.
Sandy de Lissovoy was one of 22 fellows to participate in the prestigious residency program at Mt. San Angelo.
Professor Wendy Castenell kicks off the series on Sept. 19 at noon in Leyburn Library.
Chawne Kimber, Thomas Roy and Lura Forrest Jones Professor of Mathematics, head of the Mathematics Department, and co-director of the Hanson Center for Inclusive STEM Education at Lafayette College, has been named dean of the College at Washington and Lee University.
The Africana Studies Program at W&L, in partnership with the Rupert H. Johnson Jr. Program in Leadership and Integrity, will host a series of events focused on activism and Black life. It kicks off Aug. 26 with a panel discussion featuring three W&L faculty members.
Franks, a professor of law at the University of Miami School of Law, will discuss the topic of her 2019 book, “The Cult of the Constitution: Our Deadly Devotion to Guns and Free Speech.”
W&L’s first Black Future Leaders Experience (FLEX) conference brought alumni and staff together to mentor students from across central Virginia on how to thrive in white spaces, navigate politics and serve as leaders.