After graduation, Tara Blackwell will be working at the Greater Chicago Legal Clinic (GCLC) as a Donoghue Fellow with the Homelessness Advice and Representation Program.
Alexis Smith spent her summer working in the litigation department of the AARP Foundation.
Barbara Merryman spent her summer clerking with the Juvenile Litigation Division of the Maryland Office of the Public Defender in Baltimore.
Yardley Borten spent the summer as a legal intern at the Mid-Atlantic Innocence Project (MAIP) in Washington, D.C.
Negin Farahmand Wood is Senior Assistant Public Defender at Office of the Public Defender for Fairfax County.
105 students and recent graduates received grants to support their work in public interest positions.
According to the report, 96.6 percent of the class of 2022 secured a job that either requires bar passage or for which a J.D. degree is an advantage.
W&L Law has announced the creation of a program to guarantee financial support for current students and graduates interested or serving in public interest and government careers.
After graduation, Alicia Ochsner Utt will be working at the King County Department of Public Defense in Seattle, Washington.
After graduation, Marshall Branch will join the U.S. Army JAG Corps.
As a public defender, Chris Chino enjoys fighting for his clients in the "theatre of trial."
Ella Bishop spent her summer as a judicial intern for Judge Lucy Inman at the North Carolina Court of Appeals and Justice Samuel Ervin IV at the North Carolina Supreme Court.
Maeve Harris spent her summer working for Judge Richard G. Latin of the Supreme Court of New York.
Jonathan Thomas, a member of the Law Class of 2024, has been chosen for a 2022 Disaster Resilience Program Fellowship through Equal Justice Works.
Tara Blackwell, a member of the Law Class of 2024, has been chosen for a 2022 Rural Summer Legal Corps Fellowship.
This summer, Alex Castro '22L was a legal intern for El Centro de los Derechos del Migrante, a nonprofit that specializes in labor rights violations committed against migrant workers.
Third year law student Erin Hayes works pro bono as legislative director for the Racial Justice Coalition of Texas.
After graduation, Karen Vallejos-Corrales will work for Texas Rio Grande Legal Aid, an organization that provides free legal services to low-income people facing legal problems.
After graduation, Amanda Triplett will practice antitrust law as a trial attorney in the Health Care Division of the Federal Trade Commission’s Bureau of Competition in Washington, D.C.
During her internship in Alaska with the Office of the Attorney General, 2L Brooke Wilson learned how the right facts can make or break a case.
On Friday, October 27, twenty 1Ls joined 2Ls and 3Ls interviewing in Washington, D.C. at Equal Justice Works (EJW), the largest legal public sector career fair in the country. 
Kit Thomas '18L spent her summer at the Louisiana Capital Assistance Center, a non-profit trial level death penalty organization located in New Orleans, Louisiana. She is a graduate of Centre College and is interested in a career in capital defense and criminal justice.
Jessica Winn is originally from Newberg, Oregon and studied Political Science at Carnegie Mellon University. At Washington and Lee, she is involved in Law Review, German Law Journal, Law Ambassadors, WLSO, ACS, and PILSA.
Law Changes Lives at Compassion International.
Ember Eyster '15L, from Bonita Springs, FL, is a graduate of the University of Florida. She is a student attorney in the Criminal Justice Clinic.
Anjelica Hendricks '15L, from Richmond, VA,is a graduate of James Madison University. She is a student attorney in the Criminal Justice Clinic.
Brandon Hicks '15L, from Charlotte, NC, is a graduate of North Carolina Central University. He is a student attorney in the Immigrant Rights Clinic.
Imani Hutty '15L, from Philadelphia, PA, is a graduate of Temple University. He was a member of the Black Law Students Association Mock Trial team that won a national championship at the Thurgood Marshall Mock Trial competition.
Laura Iheanachor '15L, from Wake Forest, NC, is a graduate of East Carolina University. She is a member of the Black Law Student's Association Mock Trial team.
A number of Washington and Lee Law students have received external awards aimed at helping support students working at law-related public service jobs during the summer.