In an article for the Columbia Law School Blue Sky blog, Parella explores the ways in which corporate stakeholders influence corporate actors.
The third-year assistant women's basketball coach was named to the WBCA Thirty Under 30 List.
Bright Frimpong and Keri Larson teamed with two others to produce a paper on crowdfunding that was featured in the Journal of Business Venturing Insights.
Hafsa Oubou’s essay “Churches Can, Mosques Can’t” appears in the January edition of Canopy Forum.
The professor of accounting will receive the 2023 Accounting Historians Journal Award at the organization’s annual meeting in August. 
Holly Pickett’s book explores the stories of several serial converts in early modern England.
Frederick will serve as co-presenter for a session that demonstrates the beneficial uses of technology in the curriculum mapping process.
The article looks at current instability involving corporate shareholder voting rights, examining it through a historical lens.
The article outlines the historical underpinnings of corporate cooperation, and expands upon the literature considering the structural, constitutional, and normative issues with corporate cooperation.
In an article for the ECGI blog, Haan challenges a central assumption of early 20th century corporate law.
Chris Dobbins officially assumed the position at the organization’s 2024 conference last month.
Anthony Edwards’ article focuses on the 19th-century Orientalist Gregory M. Wortabet.
The first-year biology professor co-authored a paper titled “Sponge-derived matter is assimilated by coral holobionts.” 
The article takes the form of a fictional narrative evoking George Orwell's classic novel to examine flaws in the legal system.
Generals’ mentor garners top conference honor after leading both sports to conference titles.
The pioneering online and open-access journal sees its impact in recent top ranking from Google Scholar.
Woody, a corporate law scholar, and Drumbl, an expert in international law, were recognized for their outstanding scholarly work.
The article examines confidentiality agreements that operate to prevent employees from accepting new positions under threat of breach of contract.
Hasbrouck reviewed "Shielded: How the Police Became Untouchable" by Joanna Schwartz.
The article, "Delegated Corporate Voting and the Deliberative Franchise," examines a shift in the shareholder voting process that could impact wealth maximization.
Woody is among 13 new members to join the Board and will serve a three-year term.
The assistant professor of history will hold her talk on Feb. 7 at noon in the Harte Center Gallery.
The article focuses on the geology and topology behind optimal shapes.
‘Wes Bound: The Genius of Wes Montgomery’ will begin airing nationwide Feb. 1.
‘White before whiteness in the late Middle Ages’ will launch via Zoom on Jan. 25 from 5-6:30 p.m.
The engineering professor will perform research related to gastrointestinal motility over the next three years in New Zealand.
Professor and collection strategist named a Library Journal Reviewer of the Year 2023.
The second-year faculty member co-authored a paper analyzing the effect of CEO age on financial reporting quality and clawback provisions.
Wilson appears at number 14 on the list as she begins her presidency of the Association of American Law Schools.
The article examines how corporations are affecting foreign policy by using economic means to reward or punish countries involved in conflict.
Politics professor Clyde Wang offers perspective on government intervention to combat declining birth rates in China.
Kumudu Gamage will use the funds for professional development and summer research.
Elliott King was elected to the position at the organization’s 2023 conference.
First-year earth and environmental science professor co-authored a paper titled “Monogenetic volcanoes as windows into transcrustal mush.”
Anthony Edwards illustrates his case study that focuses on Khalīl al-Khūrī, a central figure of the Nahḍa.
Professor Lisa Greer has been taking students to Belize since 2011 to study the thriving reef corals located there.
Mohamed Kamara’s book titled “Colonial Legacies in Francophone African Literature” hits bookshelves Dec. 15.
The mathematics professor discusses the differences between various necktie knots.
The classics professor’s Ancient Graffiti Project digital resource was also mentioned in the article that focuses on ancient graffiti works.
The Spanish professor appears as a faculty expert in the film that debuted at the Virginia Film Festival last month. 
Professor Alan Trammell published "The False Promise of Jurisdiction Stripping."
Blue Marble published a conversation with Aly Colón about providing balanced coverage of a crisis.
The second-year faculty member co-authored a paper analyzing the relation between institutional ownership and earnings management. 
First-year biology professor co-authored a paper titled “Microbiome environmental shifts differ between two co-occurring octocoral hosts.” 
Jenefer Davies authored “The Art of Dance Composition: Writing the Body,” an introduction to modern dance composition.
Professor Sarah Haan published "Women in Shareholder Activism."
Art Goldsmith will deliver the fall lecture for the Richmond Association of Business Economics and the Virginia Association of Economists on Oct. 27.
Arabic professor Anthony Edwards recently published a paper titled “Becoming the Muʿallim: how tradition and innovation made a Nahḍa icon.”
Krzysztof Jasiewicz authored “Roads to and from Democracy” from a collection of papers written over the course of 40 years.
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck published "Democratizing Abolition."
Lesley Wheeler’s essay “Ghost Tour” was featured in a guest-edited folio for the Summer 2023 issue.
The professor has also published two literary works in recent months. 
Leah Naomi Green’s essay on Kaveh Akbar’s poem “The Miracle” is anthologized in “Raised by Wolves.”
Karena Gill handles all aspects of the event slated to be held Sept. 27-30 in Washington, D.C.
Sandy de Lissovoy was one of 22 fellows to participate in the prestigious residency program at Mt. San Angelo.
Megan Hess collected the award at the AAA Annual Meeting in August.
Professor Jay Margalus co-authored pieces featured in bioRxiv and for the International Symposium on Academic Makerspaces. 
Denny Garvis and Zoila Ponce de León presented a two-day online workshop on applying adaptive and interactive learning practices in undergraduate statistics courses.
Robert Humston will assess over 30 years of data collected by the U.S. Forest Service within the George Washington and Thomas Jefferson National Forests.
Haan’s talk “The Democratization of Shareholding: Power and Passivity in American Corporate and Political Governance” will be held on Sept. 5.
Prof. Kish Parella published "International Law in the Boardroom."
Myers serves as a commentator for the series “Dark Marvels,” offering the history behind some of the world’s most diabolical inventions.
Leica Geosystems followed Bent and his team of W&L students on a day spent mapping the city of Florence. 
Prof. Karen Woody published "Caremark's Butterfly Effect."
Pooja Thakur-Wernz presented her paper at the Academy of International Business Conference in Warsaw, Poland on July 9.
Classics professor will use the fellowship to research his project “Annotated Amores” at the University of Cincinnati this spring.
Megan Hess offers perspective on the importance of determining the scope of inventory shrinkage.
Emma Steinkraus’ exhibition “Princess Botticelli” opens June 29 at the 1969 Gallery in Tribeca
Linda Hooks’ comments were featured regarding the stubborn phase of inflation cooling.
W&L Law Dean Melanie Wilson has announced the annual awards that recognize faculty members for their accomplishments as teachers and scholars and for service to the school.
Prof. Josh Fairfield published "Making Virtual Things."
Beth Belmont has been named Director of Experiential Education, and Brandon Hasbrouck will lead the Frances Lewis Law Center.
Justin Davis studied numerous Kickstarter campaigns and published the findings alongside three colleagues.
Prof. Matt Boaz published "Speculative Immigration Policy."
Aly Colón created and organized “Covering Faith and the Faithful” seminars for journalists in Los Angeles and New York City.
Prof. Russ Miller published "Pandemic as Transboundary Harm: Lessons from the Trail Smelter Arbitration."
The first-year head coach led the Generals to their 13th straight conference title.
Generals’ mentor garners the award for the third time after winning his fourth ODAC title.
Mengying Liu will use the funds to research high-throughput crystallographic mapping in the United Kingdom.
Seaman joined the Washington and Lee Law faculty in 2012.  His research and teaching interests include intellectual property, property, and election law and voting rights.
Generals’ Head Coach garners the award for the third time across his 11 seasons.
All funds will support W&L students with Professor George Bent’s digital humanities project “Florence As It Was.”
Alan Trammell will present "The False Promise of Jurisdiction Stripping," which is forthcoming in the Columbia Law Review.
Niels-Hugo Blunch was selected for the post at the organization’s annual meeting last month.
Professors Nadia Ayoub and Kyle Friend, and students Jamal Magoti ’23, Maria Luzaran ’23, Cooper Lazo ’24 and Eman Muamar ’24 all contributed to the paper that appeared in the open science platform Frontiers.
Generals’ mentor garners the award for the second straight year and seventh time overall.
Zoila Ponce de León’s chapter is titled “Health Care and the Public-Private Mix in Mexico, Chile, and Peru” and appears in the Latin American section of the publication.
Melissa Kerin and Barton Myers will each receive $6,000 to support their research projects.
Bill Hamilton will utilize the grant to fund his ongoing research on ecosystem health in Yellowstone National Park.  
Professor Dayo Abah will dive into leadership programming designed to support a transition into higher education leadership.
Professor Eric Moffa and Jake Winston ’24 penned the article which appeared in The Social Studies Journal.
Hongchu Fu offers a look into the Yuan Dynasty under Mongol Rule in “Three Yuan Plays by Yang Zi.”
Leah Naomi Green’s essay titled “Mourning Songs Are Love Songs” was excerpted from the anthology “Solastalgia: An Anthology of Emotion in a Disappearing World.”
Avvirin Gray, assistant professor of English at Washington and Lee University, is the winner of the 2023 Jean Feldman Poetry Prize.
Jon Erickson’s papers are part of an ongoing research project studying non-invasive gastric mapping techniques. 
Johanna Bond, Sydney and Frances Lewis Professor of Law at W&L Law, has been named as the next Dean of Rutgers Law School. Bond will assume her role at Rutgers on July 3, 2023.
Baluarte will teach in the Refugee Law Clinic and assist in the development of clinical legal education more broadly at the Iberoamericana University.
Judge Carlton Reeves of the U.S. District for the Southern District of Mississippi cited Hasbrouck's article "The Antiracist Constitution."
Assistant Professor Margaret Anne Hinkle’s article is titled “Impacts of Sulfonic Acids on Fungal Manganese Oxide Production.”
The fourth edition of “Comparative Politics” is a collaboration between faculty in W&L’s Department of Politics and Department of Sociology and Anthropology.