A global politics and economics double major, Dantini found his ‘home’ on campus with the University Singers.
Graham appreciates how W&L empowers students to follow their passions.
Reese was motivated by her summer research experience to pursue a career in medicine.
After choosing W&L off a gut feeling, Bishop says the campus already feels like home.
Barringer appreciates the learning experience he gained during his summer internship, both professionally and personally. 
Li is excited to take advantage of the personalized education W&L offers and to explore the Lexington-Rockbridge area.
Tobeason appreciates the balance she’s found at W&L as a student-athlete.
Magoti’s summer internship allowed him to apply knowledge from his neuroscience classes while also exposing him to cutting-edge technology in the field.
Boston admires W&L’s Honor System and is inspired by the greater Rockbridge County community. 
Bernbaum is inspired by W&L’s emphasis on community-based learning.
Davis’s summer internship reinforced his career aspirations as a neuroscience major.
Moran is inspired by W&L’s values and commitment to liberal arts education.
Stulce chose W&L because of the university’s well-rounded approach to encouraging individual growth.
W&L’s distinctive summer programming helped Burks-Parra develop her personal and professional interests.
Gu looks forward to graduating in May and plans to help current W&L students as other alums have supported him during his time in college. 
Lilly credits the friendliness she encountered on campus as one of her top reasons for choosing W&L as her home. 
Before starting law school, Ebony Aiken worked in real estate and in policy research with AmeriCorps Public Allies division.
Before law school, Zoe Speas worked as a Shakespearean actor and musician across the country, eventually joining the American Shakespeare Center.
Before law school, Marc Sendra helped look after the mental and spiritual well-being of 500 soldiers as a Religious Affairs Specialist.
Before law school, Kali Venable worked as a public safety reporter, and later as an investigative and environmental reporter at a daily newspaper in central south Texas.
Chiguluri chose W&L because the university challenges her and allows her to explore her interests.
Wright chose to attend W&L after witnessing how the school stresses communal and academic relationships between students and faculty with its small class model.
Jackson chose W&L because of the ability to explore different areas of academic interests.
W&L was Elena Lee's '25 first choice.
Layne Setash '19 recently earned a Distinguished Teacher Award from the Virginia Association of Colleges of Teacher Education.
Jesse Evans '20 spent his summer ensuring that this year's summit, which took place Sept. 21-22, would be a success. 
Jane Chiavelli '18 is captain of the Varsity Equestrian Team, president of Beta Alpha Psi, and president of Delta Society.