These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university.
The third-year assistant women's basketball coach was named to the WBCA Thirty Under 30 List.
The former executive director of ArtPower at the University of California, San Diego will begin his new role in July.
The upcoming screening is the third installment in the DeLaney Center’s ongoing film series and will be shown at 5 p.m. on Tuesday, April 2 in Stackhouse Theater.
Bright Frimpong and Keri Larson teamed with two others to produce a paper on crowdfunding that was featured in the Journal of Business Venturing Insights.
Hafsa Oubou’s essay “Churches Can, Mosques Can’t” appears in the January edition of Canopy Forum.
The assistant professor of French will utilize the scholarship to perform research in Paris.
The professor of accounting will receive the 2023 Accounting Historians Journal Award at the organization’s annual meeting in August. 
Holly Pickett’s book explores the stories of several serial converts in early modern England.
Frederick will serve as co-presenter for a session that demonstrates the beneficial uses of technology in the curriculum mapping process.
Chris Dobbins officially assumed the position at the organization’s 2024 conference last month.
Washington and Lee’s Center for International Education awarded deBuchananne funding to study Arabic at the University of Jordan this summer. 
Dennie will present her research on “Southern Black Feminisms at the Turn of the Century” March 20 in the Watson Galleries. 
Stillo’s lecture will be held March 15 in the Harte Center Gallery.
Morel’s talk “Lincoln, the 1860 Election & The Future of Slavery in America” will be held March 12 in Northen Auditorium.
A four-person team comprised of John Schleider ‘24, Diwesh Kumar ‘24, Bradford Bush ’25 and Drew Thompson ‘25 claimed the $3,000 top prize for their pitch on CVS Health.
Anthony Edwards’ article focuses on the 19th-century Orientalist Gregory M. Wortabet.
The first-year biology professor co-authored a paper titled “Sponge-derived matter is assimilated by coral holobionts.” 
The esteemed Buddhist philosopher will host a talk in Stackhouse Theater on March 7.
The March 7 talk in University Chapel was made possible by a $5,000 grant from the Virginia Society of the Cincinnati.
The W&L professor of politics will present on this year’s Nobel Peace Prize winner, Narges Mohammadi, on March 8 in Leyburn 128.
Generals’ mentor garners top conference honor after leading both sports to conference titles.
W&L’s assistant director of academic resources completed a rigorous program to earn the International Coaching Federation’s ACC certification.
Cohen’s talk, “Music as Witness: a Composer Commemorates the Holocaust,” will be held at 4 p.m. on Feb. 13 in Hillel 101.
The assistant professor of history will hold her talk on Feb. 7 at noon in the Harte Center Gallery.
The article focuses on the geology and topology behind optimal shapes.
‘Wes Bound: The Genius of Wes Montgomery’ will begin airing nationwide Feb. 1.
‘White before whiteness in the late Middle Ages’ will launch via Zoom on Jan. 25 from 5-6:30 p.m.
The engineering professor will perform research related to gastrointestinal motility over the next three years in New Zealand.
Newly promoted faculty members will present their research in a PechaKucha format on Jan. 30.
The current director of the Center for Teaching and Learning at Quinnipiac University will begin his new role effective June 1.
Professor and collection strategist named a Library Journal Reviewer of the Year 2023.
The second-year faculty member co-authored a paper analyzing the effect of CEO age on financial reporting quality and clawback provisions.
Stephanie Sandberg, assistant professor of theater, will discuss this year’s Nobel Prize in literature on Wednesday, Jan. 31 at 12:15 p.m.
Grajzl’s talk “An Economist’s Walk Through English Legal and Cultural History” will be held on Jan. 25 in Northen Auditorium.
The upcoming screening is the second installment in the DeLaney Center’s ongoing film series and will be shown on Thursday, Jan. 18 at 5 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater.
Politics professor Clyde Wang offers perspective on government intervention to combat declining birth rates in China.
The professor of cultural anthropology will serve a dual role leading Community-Based Learning and the SHECP Consortium.
Kumudu Gamage will use the funds for professional development and summer research.
Students in the Williams School consulted on a number of projects including marketing, research and social media strategy for businesses and organizations.
Elliott King was elected to the position at the organization’s 2023 conference.
First-year earth and environmental science professor co-authored a paper titled “Monogenetic volcanoes as windows into transcrustal mush.”
The Department of Earth and Environmental Geoscience provides students with the chance to expand their learning beyond the classroom by attending top national conferences.
Yurechko ’24 is the university’s first Marshall Scholar.
Anthony Edwards illustrates his case study that focuses on Khalīl al-Khūrī, a central figure of the Nahḍa.
Professor Lisa Greer has been taking students to Belize since 2011 to study the thriving reef corals located there.
Mohamed Kamara’s book titled “Colonial Legacies in Francophone African Literature” hits bookshelves Dec. 15.
The mathematics professor discusses the differences between various necktie knots.
The associate professor of art history will serve as the Mudd Center Director for three years beginning July 1, 2024.
The classics professor’s Ancient Graffiti Project digital resource was also mentioned in the article that focuses on ancient graffiti works.
The Spanish professor appears as a faculty expert in the film that debuted at the Virginia Film Festival last month. 
Blue Marble published a conversation with Aly Colón about providing balanced coverage of a crisis.
Bottoms, the former mayor of Atlanta, will headline the weeklong programming on campus.
The second-year faculty member co-authored a paper analyzing the relation between institutional ownership and earnings management. 
Ryan Brindle was presented the Rising Star Award and Dave Pfaff received the Excellence in Instructional Technology Award.
First-year biology professor co-authored a paper titled “Microbiome environmental shifts differ between two co-occurring octocoral hosts.” 
Mathen’s talk “Dilemmas of Democracy” will be held Nov. 13.
Kaplan’s talk “Between Empire and Anarchy from the Mediterranean to China” will be held Nov. 8.
Kyle Friend, associate professor of chemistry and biochemistry, will discuss this year’s Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine on Nov. 8 in Leyburn Library’s Harte Center.
This year’s first film, “Southern Hoops: A History of SEC Basketball,” will be shown Nov. 4 in Stackhouse Theater.
The Elmes Pathfinder Prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
Jenefer Davies authored “The Art of Dance Composition: Writing the Body,” an introduction to modern dance composition.
The Williams School and Department of Economics provided the opportunity for students to network and explore careers in the field of economics.
Tom McClain, assistant professor of physics, will discuss this year’s Nobel Prize in Physics on Wednesday, Nov. 1.
Art Goldsmith will deliver the fall lecture for the Richmond Association of Business Economics and the Virginia Association of Economists on Oct. 27.
Arabic professor Anthony Edwards recently published a paper titled “Becoming the Muʿallim: how tradition and innovation made a Nahḍa icon.”
Krzysztof Jasiewicz authored “Roads to and from Democracy” from a collection of papers written over the course of 40 years.
Lesley Wheeler’s essay “Ghost Tour” was featured in a guest-edited folio for the Summer 2023 issue.
The professor has also published two literary works in recent months. 
Lucy Worthy ’24 assisted in the research and helped publish the results alongside two W&L alumni. 
The premiere event will be followed by a student-led discussion about their experiences and the creative journey in producing the films.
Karena Gill handles all aspects of the event slated to be held Sept. 27-30 in Washington, D.C.
Katie Yurechko ’24 presented research related to content creators circumventing TikTok’s content moderation algorithms.
Brainard’s talk “Does Artificial Intelligence Make Human Creativity Obsolete” will be held Sept. 26 at 5 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.
Sandy de Lissovoy was one of 22 fellows to participate in the prestigious residency program at Mt. San Angelo.
Professor Wendy Castenell kicks off the series on Sept. 19 at noon in Leyburn Library.
Megan Hess collected the award at the AAA Annual Meeting in August.
Professor Jay Margalus co-authored pieces featured in bioRxiv and for the International Symposium on Academic Makerspaces. 
A total of 20 new faculty are joining the university this year.
A total of 25 new instructors join the W&L community.
Caraballo is one of 369 students from across the U.S. to receive the merit scholarship from the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Annual Provost’s Lecture celebrates W&L faculty for excellence in scholarship and teaching.
Wingard Cunningham joins W&L from College of Wooster, where she is the Mildred Foss Thompson Professor of English and dean for faculty development.
Six undergraduate students received Critical Language Scholarships, which will provide them the opportunity to study language intensively during summer 2022.
Melanie D. Wilson has been named the next dean of Washington and Lee University’s School of Law. She will also hold the Roy L. Steinheimer Jr. Professorship in Law.
A record-setting year for nationally competitive fellowship awards at Washington and Lee University can be attributed to forward-thinking educators, hard-working students and a persistent, encouraging fellowships director. 
Washington and Lee University will name a new interdisciplinary academic center for teaching and research on Southern race relations, culture, and politics in honor of late professor of history emeritus Theodore “Ted” Carter DeLaney Jr. '85.
W&L’s new provost, Lena Hill, aims to support the university’s initiatives in interdisciplinary work, diversity, equity and inclusion, and more.
The series will end the academic year with a roundtable discussion on May 19 at 6 p.m. titled "The Black Freedom Struggle: Verdicts on Advocacy."
Chawne Kimber, Thomas Roy and Lura Forrest Jones Professor of Mathematics, head of the Mathematics Department, and co-director of the Hanson Center for Inclusive STEM Education at Lafayette College, has been named dean of the College at Washington and Lee University.
In the interview, Hill discusses her new appointment as W&L provost, effective July 1, 2021.
Washington and Lee University is among the 51 inaugural member institutions* of the Liberal Arts Colleges Racial Equity Leadership Alliance, a new initiative from the University of Southern California's Race and Equity Center.
Lena Hill, dean of the College and professor of English and Africana studies at Washington and Lee, has been appointed to be the university’s next provost, beginning July 1, 2021.
The event is scheduled for Oct. 29 and 30 and will be hosted on Zoom.
Michelle Lyon Drumbl, Robert O. Bentley Professor of Law and director of the Tax Clinic at the Washington and Lee University School of Law, has been appointed to a one-year term as interim dean of the law school effective July 1, 2021.
Tolu Olubunmi, a 2002 graduate of Washington and Lee, will return to her alma mater as the guest speaker for Washington and Lee’s first International Day of Peace event. 
The Africana Studies Program at W&L, in partnership with the Rupert H. Johnson Jr. Program in Leadership and Integrity, will host a series of events focused on activism and Black life. It kicks off Aug. 26 with a panel discussion featuring three W&L faculty members.
Vaughan holds a bachelor’s degree in biology from Harvard University, a master’s degree in library science from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and a doctorate from Arizona State University. She succeeds John Tombarge, who will step down on June 30 after serving in the role for seven years. 
Elizabeth Goad Oliver, associate dean of the Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics and Lewis Whitaker Adams Professor of Accounting, has been appointed to a one-year term as interim provost at Washington and Lee University, effective July 1, 2020. She will return to her position as associate dean in July 2021.
Snyder is a journalist known for her works on the topic of domestic violence.