The senior thesis exhibition will be on view April 1-12.
After graduating with a double degree in English and studio art, Gabriela Gomez-Misserian ’21 took her talents to Garden & Gun Magazine.
After her USTA program orientation in September, Shugart will team teach in a secondary school in Austria through May 2023.
The artists will present their work in a talk on Feb. 12 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
The artist will give a public artist’s talk on Jan. 23 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall. 
Oring visited W&L in conjunction with her Staniar Gallery exhibit, "Writer's Block."
Xinxian Wang '21 was able to marry two interests in an internship with The Visual Arts Center in Richmond.
Washington and Lee students partnered with Eagle’s Nest Clubhouse members to create a 32-foot community mural around the theme of recovery.
Ellen Kanzinger '18 provides a snapshot of the many opportunities she had to hone her photography skills at Washington and Lee.
Staniar Gallery showcases work by the Art Department’s graduating studio majors.
The interactive exhibit will be on display in Staniar Gallery through March 17.
A three-month internship with New York-based artist Taryn Simon presented Sara Dotterer '18 with myriad possibilities for her future career.
Olivia Kubli '18's summer volunteer work included photographing lions, giraffes and elephants in Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe.
Elora Fucigna '19 completed an internship in social media and marketing for Ground Floor Farm, an urban farm in her hometown of Stuart, Florida.
Students in Meg Griffith’s Spring Term art class created public works of art to draw attention to important causes in the community.
Amirah S. Ndam Njoya ‘17 believes leadership, travelling, service, and scholarship are all vital parts of the W&L experience.
Every once in a while someone comes along who reminds us that philanthropy is both profoundly creative and simpler than we think. For Eileen Small ’15, being a philanthropist is as simple as taking the ideas you have for how things could be better and doing something about them.
Meet Olivia Sisson, a senior who has wanted to be an artist since she was little - but didn’t know how - about her experience on the Humanities Career Trip to New York.
As a student at Washington and Lee, Noelani Love ’05 made jewelry for fun and extra income. Today, she has turned that hobby into a thriving business.