The Oct. 28 concert is sponsored by the Pickens World Music series.
The Oct. 9 performance will take place in the Lenfest Center’s Keller Theatre.
The ensemble concludes its global tour with its Feb. 28 concert at the Lenfest Center.
The cellist’s three-day residency is sponsored by the Concert Guild.
The recital will be held in person and via Livestream on Feb. 5 at 3 p.m.
Tickets for the ensemble’s Jan. 21 performance can be ordered online or at the box office.
No tickets are required for the Dec. 2 performance in Wilson Concert Hall.
Ocean voyages, sword fights, treasure hunts, rivalry, friendships and pirates are on display in this show based on the familiar novel by Robert Louis Stevenson.
Watch the concert at 8 p.m. Monday, Nov. 7 in the Wilson Concert Hall.
The concert is at 3 p.m. Sunday, Nov. 6 in the Wilson Concert Hall.
The faculty recital is scheduled for Oct. 30 at 3 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
Tickets are free, but required for the performance, which will take place at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall. 
Tickets are not required, and a reception will follow the performance.
W&L Presents “Viva Momix” on Oct. 4 at 7:30 p.m. on the W&L campus. Tickets are required.
For the first time ever, tickets for the entire season are available online beginning Sept. 13. 
The May 11 recital in the Wilson Concert Hall will focus on musical associations from Venice.
W&L presents the Zukerman Trio on Jan. 23 at 3 p.m. Tickets are required.
Performances will occur Dec. 2-5 in the Keller Theatre on the W&L campus. Tickets are required. 
Tickets for the 2022 season can be purchased online using a credit card or in-person at the Lenfest Center box office beginning Nov. 30.
W&L presents a staged reading of Will Arbery’s “Heroes of the Fourth Turning” in the Johnson Theatre on the W&L campus on Oct. 21-23 at 7:30 p.m.
Ashley Killam will present a lecture titled “Fanfare for the Unheard: Diversifying Stands and Creating Inclusive Repertoire.”
No tickets are required for the Sept. 17 performance in Wilson Concert Hall.
The May 25 event is free and open to the public to view online.
The duet consists of Julia Goudimova and Anna Billias, who both serve as lecturers in the Washington and Lee Music Department.
On April 9 and 10, W&L will stream its production of "BURN" featuring a large ensemble of talented student actors and directed by Jemma Levy, assistant professor of theater.
The W&L community is invited to an in-person concert on April 8.
On March 26, Gonzalez will perform selections by composers Domenico Scarlatti, Gabriel Fauré, Manuel de Falla and others.
On March 5, nine W&L music students will present a recital of songs and arias in Spanish.
On March 7, Lebsack will perform selections by George Frideric Handel, Franz Schubert, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Francis Poulenc and others.
The concert is free and open to the public to view online.
The virtual performance will be available to watch via livestream on Nov. 7 at 8 p.m. 
Guitarist Bhattacharya, who brings universal appeal to his pioneering fusion of classical Indian ragas and bluesy Western music, will perform on Nov. 14 at 7:30 p.m.
In October, Washington and Lee University will present Tony Award winner and five-time Tony Award nominee Laura Benanti in two streamed events.
The performance will run Oct. 15-18, and it is free and open to the public to watch via livestream.
The virtual performance, which is free and open the public, will be available to view via Livestream.
Tickets are not required.
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream” is a tale built on multiple storylines that interfere with each other and create an irresistible web of mayhem and mischief.
 The group will light up the stage with their traditionally Zimbabwean music ranging from genres such as Afro Jazz and Gospel music. 
The concert is free and open to the public, and no tickets are required.
W&L students and faculty, as well as members of the Rockbridge Ballet, will participate in the event.
Talamantes has released two albums: “Heaven and Earth: a Duke Ellington Songbook” and “Canciones Españolas.”
The duet features W&L music faculty Julia Goudimova, on cello and Anna Billias, on piano and highlights 20th-century composers.
The performance will take place on Jan. 24 at 7:30 p.m. in the Keller Theatre on the Washington and Lee University campus.
This production is open to the public, but tickets are required. 
The Antioch Chamber is one of the most highly regarded chamber choral groups in the United States. 
Both events are free and open to the public; no tickets are required.
The group consists of current W&L faculty members Jaime McArdle, violinist, Julia Goudimova, cellist and Timothy Gaylard, pianist. 
Staff and students in the costume shop at Lenfest Center have been hard at work creating fabulous costumes for this upcoming W&L production.
Take a peek behind the Lenfest curtain for 2018-19.
Hermione Wang '18 has spent so much time in Lenfest that people jokingly ask her if she lives there. Her job? Making sure that the show always goes on.
Joining the Washington and Lee University Singers are the women's choir, Cantatrici, and the Men’s Glee Club.
Anna Billias and Julia Goudimova will present “An Exploration of the Russian Soul: Selections from the ‘Mighty Five’ Russian Composers.”