Wythe Whiting is a professor of cognitive and behavioral science.
Scott’s passion for the environment carries over from the classroom to opportunities on campus and beyond.
Rachel Hubbard is the Communication and Marketing Coordinator and has worked at W&L Law since February 2017.
Ronda Bryant serves as associate dean of students.
The opportunity to take a wide variety of classes has expanded Kramer's horizons.
Laura Lemon '16 serves as assistant university editor within the Office of Communications and Public Affairs
Leading Campus Kitchen, a student-run organization focused on addressing food insecurity, has been a rewarding experience.
Joshua Fairfield is the William Bain Family Professor of Law and the Director of AI Legal Innovation Strategy at W&L Law School. 
Haley Culbertson ‘22 serves as coordinator for the Johnson Program.
The first-year student says the Outing Club and W&L's proximity to great hiking and kayaking spots were a big draw.
Emma Martone is the Administrative Assistant for the Law Library and Law Center.
Aseel Atalla is an Arabic teaching assistant in the Middle East and South Asia studies program.
Unger embraces the full W&L experience, including incredible academic opportunities and being a DIII athlete.
Karen Woody has been a professor of law at W&L since July 2019.
Kelsey Goodwin is a writer in the Office of Communications and Public Affairs.
Environmental humanities classes introduced Hudson to new ideas on how humans interact with the world.
Terri Byrnes is an Academic Administrative Assistant II with the Law School.
Peter Grajzl is the John F. Hendon Professor of Economics.
Smith’s W&L experience includes finding a family in his lacrosse teammates and helping other students discover their career paths as a career fellow. 
Anna Fernandez is the Assistant Director of Community and Recruitment for Law Student Affairs.
Mauricio Betancourt is an assistant professor of environmental studies.
With medical school on the horizon, Tyler embraces many opportunities such as research fellowship, studying abroad and sorority life.
George Bent is the Sidney Gause Childress Professor of Art History.
Ford Scott '25 enjoys the intersection of technology and the humanities and has furthered his interests through independent study and internships. 
Michael Rhodes is the manager of copying services.
Accounting major Darya Philips ’24 counts her semester abroad as one of the greatest experiences of her life.
Anna Billias is a lecturer in music and collaborative pianist.
A global politics and economics double major, Dantini found his ‘home’ on campus with the University Singers.
Maureen Edobor ‘17L is an Assistant Professor of Law and DeLaney Center Fellow. 
Bryan Snyder ’95 is the head volleyball coach and associate director of athletics for finance.
Sascha Goluboff is a professor of cultural anthropology and serves as director for both the Community-Based Learning program and the Shepherd Higher Education Consortium on Poverty.
Elizabeth Outland Branner currently serves as the Senior Advisor of Law School Advancement.
Ryan Connell is the athletics broadcaster and athletics multimedia creative specialist.
Susan Wager is the assistant director of the Lenfest Center.
Meghan Ferguson serves as the financial aid coordinator for the university.
Brian Murchison, Charles S. Rowe Professor of Law, has been on the law faculty since 1982.
Suzannah Vess is a systems administrator in human resources.
Suzanne Wade is the Assistant Director for Employer and Alumni Outreach for the Office of Career Strategy and Law Advancement.
Kyle McCoil serves as an assistant dean of students.
Michelle Cosby is the Assistant Dean of Legal Information Services and Professor of Practice. 
Elizabeth Knapp serves as director of the Johnson Program and professor of earth and environmental geoscience.
Leila Lawlor is Director of the new Academic Excellence Program and a Professor of Practice.
Ben Schlief is the associate director of recreation.
Catlin Meade is a professor of practice who has been teaching legal writing since 2022. 
Karena Gill is a visiting assistant professor of earth and environmental geoscience. 
Tommy Roberts serves as the university's payroll supervisor.
Kristy Speers is the Senior Recruitment Coordinator at W&L Law.
Miranda Edwards serves as the student employment manager.
Alexi Pfeffer-Gillett joined W&L Law this fall as an assistant professor. 
Christina Querrard is a custodian at Washington and Lee and works in Sydney Lewis Hall. 
Savannah Blake serves as an annual giving fellow.
Lewis Coffey serves as operations manager for auxiliary services.
Lisa Rodocker serves as assistant dean of admissions for the Law School.
Ashley Evans joined W&L Law in November 2022 as the Head of Collection Services for the Law Library.
Tom Hackman serves as theater technical director.
Erica Ingersoll is an Executive Assistant in the Dean’s Office of the Law School.
Schuyler Phillips serves as a sergeant with public safety.
Brooke Peccie ’17 serves as assistant director of career and professional development.
Matt Phillips serves as an assistant athletic trainer.
Matt Boaz is acting director of the Immigrant Rights Clinic and a Professor of Practice.
Amanda Harlow serves as an administrative assistant in admissions.
Jane Pultz is the Dining Shift Supervisor for the Brief Stop located in the law school.
Matthew Loar serves as director of fellowships and student research.
Jon Shapiro is a Professor of Practice who has taught at W&L for 13 years. 
Chrissy Van Assendelft serves as an ITS business analyst.
Sarah Cravens is a Visiting Professor of Law, who joined the law school as of June 2023. 
Kim Hodge serves as assistant dean of students.
W&L’s campus culture — from small classes to the Speaking Tradition — gave Lemon the communication skills and confidence to succeed.
Cleaveland Candler serves as a technology integration specialist.
Weaver’s advice for current students: Take advantage of every opportunity and embrace respectful debate.
Leslie Sparling serves as an admissions counselor.
For Tilbor, W&L instilled a healthy curiosity and a lifelong love of learning.
Misty Snider serves as the executive assistant of the Williams School.
Katherine Brinkley is the assistant director of board operations
Young learned the critical skills to excel at her job from the veteran journalists in Reid Hall.
Michelle Jones serves as associate director of alumni engagement.
Will Wallace serves as the associate director of athletic communications.
Graham appreciates how W&L empowers students to follow their passions.
Florentina Butler is the Associate Director of Law School Advancement.
Haydon credits the W&L community for inspiring him and guiding him toward success.
Heidi Bustos serves as the assistant director of inclusion and engagement.
Reese was motivated by her summer research experience to pursue a career in medicine.
Margaret Anne Hinkle is an assistant professor of earth and environmental geoscience.
Jenny Mitchell is the Archivist and Special Collections Librarian in the School of Law.
Adam Gross is the director of admissions operations.
After choosing W&L off a gut feeling, Bishop says the campus already feels like home.
Marcos Perez is an assistant professor of sociology.
Barringer appreciates the learning experience he gained during his summer internship, both professionally and personally. 
Barrow’s experience at W&L gave him the confidence to work through any challenge or opportunity.
Sheryl Salm is a senior legal assistant for the Black Lung and Criminal Justice Clinics.
Zach Nix is the technology integration coordinator within ITS.
Wendy Rice is the Sr. Administrative Assistant (Team Lead) for Faculty Services in the School of Law.
Jillian Murphy is the study abroad coordinator.
Li is excited to take advantage of the personalized education W&L offers and to explore the Lexington-Rockbridge area.
Russell Miller is the J.B. Stombock Professor of Law at W&L Law where his research and teaching focus on public law and comparative law.
Mikki Brock is an associate professor of history.
Tobeason appreciates the balance she’s found at W&L as a student-athlete.
Sutherland's advice for current students: "Don’t take yourself too seriously!"
Alvin Wheeler is the assistant director of dining operations.
Melissa Kerin is an associate professor of art history.