Scott’s passion for the environment carries over from the classroom to opportunities on campus and beyond.
These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university.
The sustainable farmer’s talk will be held on March 19.
Unger embraces the full W&L experience, including incredible academic opportunities and being a DIII athlete.
Environmental humanities classes introduced Hudson to new ideas on how humans interact with the world.
Mauricio Betancourt is an assistant professor of environmental studies.
The Chilean activist’s talk will be held Feb. 12 at 5 p.m.
Professor Lisa Greer has been taking students to Belize since 2011 to study the thriving reef corals located there.
Lucy Worthy ’24 assisted in the research and helped publish the results alongside two W&L alumni. 
Leah Naomi Green’s essay on Kaveh Akbar’s poem “The Miracle” is anthologized in “Raised by Wolves.”
Robert Humston will assess over 30 years of data collected by the U.S. Forest Service within the George Washington and Thomas Jefferson National Forests.
Margaret Anne Hinkle is an assistant professor of earth and environmental geoscience.
For W&L alumni Kevin Green ’07 and Amanda Green ’06, nature and nurture go hand-in-hand.
Leah Naomi Green’s essay titled “Mourning Songs Are Love Songs” was excerpted from the anthology “Solastalgia: An Anthology of Emotion in a Disappearing World.”
Tetiana Kozachanska ’26 is taking full advantage of her first year at Washington and Lee.
Leah Naomi Green serves as visiting assistant professor of English and environmental studies.
Lucy Worthy ’24 is conducting clinical research and shadowing a physician at the Mayo Clinic.
Caroline Wise '23 is spending her second summer working as an alpine guide in Alaska.
AJ Mabaka '22 plans to attend a graduate program in marine science and conservation  policy.
The Sociology and Anthropology Department is collaborating with the Environmental Studies Program to present a new social justice series titled “White Supremacy and Society.”
At W&L, Katherine Ingram '20 found a research interest—and a future profession—where environmental studies meets economics.
Kahn has been invited to give the opening keynote speech at the Exposition of Sustainability of the Industrial Pole of Manaus.
Julianna Keeling ’19 applied her passion for the environment to build a company focused on biodegradable consumer products. 
Casey was appointed by Virginia Governor Ralph Northam.
The discussion is free and open to the public.
The event, which is free and open to the public, is titled "The Future of the Amazon Rain Forest."
This summer, Ginny Johnson '20 served as a peer mentor to nine rising sophomores as part of the Keck Geology Consortium trip to Belize, where Professor Lisa Greer continued her research project into the staghorn coral population.
This summer, geology and environmental science major Chantal Iosso ’20 is studying the effects of the Jordan's Point Dam removal on the Maury River.
Fon Teawdatwan '19 has led three service trips to Charleston, West Virginia, for Volunteer Venture, a service-learning, pre-orientation program for incoming students.
His statement was given at a public hearing at the EPA headquarters in Washington, D.C. on Mon., Mar. 18.
At W&L, sustainability starts with a seed and blossoms into sea change. Take a peek inside our gardening and composting effort to see how it's impacting our community — and the future.
The talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Climate Change: Local Agriculture and Rainforest Solutions – A 7 Point Plan." 
Jesse Evans '20 spent his summer ensuring that this year's summit, which took place Sept. 21-22, would be a success. 
Strickler will give a talk on Wednesday, Sept. 19, at 6 p.m. in the Stackhouse Theater in Elrod Commons.
Attending the Princeton Environmental Ideathon was a natural progression for Julianna Keeling '19, who started a sustainable packaging company when she was still in high school. 
The A. Paul Knight Internship Program in Conservation, named in memory of a late Washington and Lee student, turns 30 this year. It has provided internships to 132 students and is still going strong.
Kathelen and Daniel Amos made the gift in memory of her son, John Kyle Spencer, a 2013 graduate of W&L. Professor Robert Humston (pictured) will be the new director.
Kat Oakley '19 has spent a lot of time contemplating the idea of "place" - both in Lexington and across the world. 
As a research assistant at the Virginia Institute of Marine Science, Rachel Steffen ’18 gathered data on the environmental thresholds of juvenile sandbar sharks.
Over the summer, students worked with Professor Robert Humston to examine the potential effects of smallmouth bass on native brook trout populations in the Virginia watershed.
Liz Todd '19 was able to extend her Spring Term Abroad and spend the summer in Brazil, where she worked for an environmental agency.
Meet Shlomo Honig ‘18, whose day consists of analyzing rocks, protecting the environment, and ultimate frisbee
Meet Tessa Horan '18, a pre-med, self-proclaimed "tree-hugger" with big plans for making the university - and the world - a little greener.
Meet Harry Lustig ‘17, a scholar-explorer who’s hiked everywhere from the Blue Ridge to Alaska.
Above or below the water, Sasha Doss '13 studies and connects with fish and their environment.
A double major in English and geology, plus a curiosity about the world around him, led Hanson to a career as a freelance writer, photographer and videographer. He is the author of "Breaking Through Concrete: Building an Urban Farm Revival" and producer of the documentary film "Who Owns the Water."
Taking part in the Sustainability Leadership Pre-Orientation Program allowed a group of Washington and Lee first-years to understand the many facets of creating and supporting sustainable communities.
Psychology major Maya Epelbaum worked as an intern at Henry's Fork Foundation in Ashton, Idaho.