In an article on OpinioJuris, Drumbl discusses the legacy of the Special Court for Sierra Leone and its residual function.
Lillian Weitz '25L discusses her research with the UN Office of Drugs and Crime.
Sabrina Callender-Clewett '25L writes about the German Law Journal's trip to Berlin.
Professor Mark Drumbl participated in a conference examining the legacy of the international court that prosecuted war crimes.
Woody, a corporate law scholar, and Drumbl, an expert in international law, were recognized for their outstanding scholarly work.
The article examines how corporations are affecting foreign policy by using economic means to reward or punish countries involved in conflict.
Arianna Kiaei spent her summer as a judicial intern at the U.S. Court of International Trade in New York.
Prof. Kish Parella published "International Law in the Boardroom."
The April conference explored children ensnared in violent situations, including armed conflict and liberation struggles.
After graduation, Sierra Terrana will work in-house for IBM.
Audrey Curelop '23L discusses a recent research trip to Tanzania as part of the International Human Rights Practicum.
The conference will be held via Zoom on February 16 from 10:00 am to 12:00 pm EST. 
Law professor Mark Drumbl recently provided expert testimony to the drafting committee tasked with developing a protocol to the United Nations Convention to Eliminate Racial Discrimination.
Maan received support for her summer placement with the UN Office of Drugs and Crime in Fiji.
The brief concerns the case of Dominic Ongwen, a Ugandan former child soldier and military commander, who is appealing a conviction for war crimes committed in the early 2000s.
A new book from W&L Law professor Johanna Bond pulls together decades of research to address identity discrimination.
The two-part blog interview covered a wide range of topics, including child soldiers and ecocide.
Russell Miller, J.B. Stombock Professor of Law at Washington and Lee University, is the recipient of a Humboldt Research Prize, one of Germany’s highest academic honors.
Prof. Mark Drumbl commented in the Washington Post on a new U.S. anti-doping law that could have consequences for sporting events around the globe.
How will the international law principles established in the Trail Smelter Arbitration of the 1920s inform liability for the spread of COVID-19.
3L Kyle Hess reflects on the Global Corruption and Good Governance Practicum.
Professor Timothy Waters to give a talk on borders, secession, instability and violence.
Law professor Mark Drumbl discussed why bombing cultural sites is considered a war crime.
2L Anahita Mohtasham-Gharagozloo learned to react quickly to law and policy changes during her internship with the International Organisation to Preserve Human Rights.
When Feyisa Lilesa of Ethiopia took second in the Olympic marathon with his wrists crossed over his head, he brought the plight of Ethiopia’s Oromo people to the world stage.
Baluarte will conduct his research at the University of Buenos Aires Law School in Argentina, where he will study the stateless population and also will teach refugee and asylum law in his host school's immigration clinic.
The special consultative status, currently granted to only three other educational institutions in the U.S., gives W&L the ability to participate and comment on the UN's ECOSOC law and policy making process.
Ambassador Chun Yungwoo (千英宇　천영우), of South Korea, will give a lecture sponsored by Washington and Lee University on March 25 at 8 p.m. in JM Hall (the chapel) at Virginia Military Institute. The talk is free and open to the public.
Hannah Shtein is a 3L from Milwaulkee, Wisconsin. In the final post in this series, she discusses the Israeli public defender system and the barriers, both literal and figurative, to Israeli and Palestinian lawyers working together for justice.
Hannah Shtein is a 3L from Milwaulkee, Wisconsin. In this blog post, she describes the second leg of her trip to the middle east with the Access to Justice practicum, during which she an her fellow students visited Ramallah for a U.S. trial demonstration and visit a juvenile detention center.
Hannah Shtein is a 3L from Milwaulkee, Wisconsin. In this blog post, she describes the first leg of her trip to the middle east with the Access to Justice practicum, during which she an her fellow students visited Hebron University and conducted a mock U.S. trail for Palestinian law students.
In this Q&A, Professor Speedy Rice discusses the Access to Justice practicum and the class trip to Israel and Palestine that occurred in late November.
Washington and Lee law professor and international law expert Mark Drumbl says tragic downing of Malaysia Flight 17 raises some serious questions for international law, such as whether Russia can be held responsible for the activities of the pro-Russian militia in Ukraine.
Diane Marie Amann, law professor at the University of Georgia and special adviser to the International Criminal Court on Children in Armed Conflict, will deliver a lecture at W&L Law on Friday, March 7 at 2:00 pm.
On Tuesday, April 16, Richard Goldstone, retired Justice of the Constitutional Court of South African and former chief prosecutor for the International Criminal Tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda, will give a public lecture at W&L Law.