These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university.
New Williams School construction and Elrod Commons Phase 2 renovations both remain on schedule, while the new Lindley Center for Student Wellness will break ground soon.
The state-of-the-art facility will be the new home of the Student Health Center and University Counseling Services.
The former executive director of ArtPower at the University of California, San Diego will begin his new role in July.
University Provost Lena Hill addressed new members of ODK during their spring induction ceremony.
Washington and Lee's Generals Activities Board has taken a dynamic approach to bringing the student body together through live music.
A meeting with a Broadway legend allowed engineering major Zaria Daniels ’26 to take her vocal talents to Cuba.
Nabors Service League continues to honor the late Jonathan Nabors ’02 by bringing students together to help the greater Rockbridge area.
The assistant professor of French will utilize the scholarship to perform research in Paris.
The second annual Philanthropy Education Week highlighted the impact donations have on the undergraduate experience.
W&L's Office of Career and Professional Development gave students the opportunity to network and explore potential career paths over Washington Break.
Miller, whose appointment is effective July 1, joined Denison as vice president of student life in 2020 and has over 20 years of experience in higher education as a student affairs professional. 
Unger embraces the full W&L experience, including incredible academic opportunities and being a DIII athlete.
On March 22, the University Provost will address 51 new initiates of W&L’s Alpha Circle of ODK.
Environmental humanities classes introduced Hudson to new ideas on how humans interact with the world.
The Harte Center for Teaching and Learning is bringing student voices to a new podcast designed to share perspectives on transitioning to college life.
Liz Mira Santi ’24 came to W&L as a Gunn Scholar in 2023, and her time on campus has expanded her worldview and reinforced her ambitions.
Washington and Lee’s library staff share their recommendations for your next trip to the University Library.
Laura Murambadoro ’26 brings varied interests, a collaborative leadership style and a passion for community engagement to W&L’s campus.
With medical school on the horizon, Tyler embraces many opportunities such as research fellowship, studying abroad and sorority life.
Washington and Lee was ranked third among the baccalaureate institutions recognized by the Fulbright Program.
W&L alumni’s Fulbright experiences expand their worldviews and shape their post-graduate careers.
A student-run academic exercise, Mock Con remains the most accurate political mock convention in the country
The Human Library, a collaboration between the Mudd Center for Ethics and Leyburn Library, brought the W&L community together in conversation.
Washington and Lee students are applying their accounting skills in the community as part of the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance program. 
A global politics and economics double major, Dantini found his ‘home’ on campus with the University Singers.
Washington and Lee’s chapter of Remote Area Medical takes students to remote rural areas to provide medical services and gain valuable practical experience along the way.
Washington and Lee University’s Special Collections and Archives has been working with the 2024 Mock Convention to debut an exhibit showcasing extraordinary items from past conventions.
The current director of the Center for Teaching and Learning at Quinnipiac University will begin his new role effective June 1.
The event is co-sponsored by the Mudd Center for Ethics and Leyburn Library and will be held Wednesday, Jan. 24, at 4:30 p.m.
A message to the campus community from President Will Dudley.
The professor of cultural anthropology will serve a dual role leading Community-Based Learning and the SHECP Consortium.
Students in the Williams School consulted on a number of projects including marketing, research and social media strategy for businesses and organizations.
The Department of Earth and Environmental Geoscience provides students with the chance to expand their learning beyond the classroom by attending top national conferences.
The Williams School construction and Elrod Commons Phase 2 renovations are well underway while maintenance on Sydney Lewis Hall nears completion.
The sophomore goalkeeper boasts highest GPA of Final Four teams.
The Generals and Mammoths will meet in Friday's men's soccer semifinal in Salem, Virginia.
The associate professor of art history will serve as the Mudd Center Director for three years beginning July 1, 2024.
Washington and Lee’s Interfraternity Council, National Panhellenic Conference and National Pan-Hellenic Council focus on community-building, education and fundraising throughout the year.
The 28th Mock Convention’s Presidential Gala on Nov. 12 offered the campus a glimpse of the upcoming excitement for the 2024 mock presidential convention.
’Tis the season for holiday events on campus and in the local community! Check out what’s happening and make your plans to ring in the holiday season.
An award of $9,500 will support the center’s Screen to Square film series.
W&L’s recent staging of ‘Speech & Debate’ brought its cast, crew and audience an opportunity to engage with an innovative, collaborative approach to theater.
A Q&A information session with Chief Information Officer David Saacke.
These additional renovations will expand the Marketplace dining room, provide additional outdoor patio seating, and reconfigure the Cohen Family Amphitheater.
The EV station, located on the top deck of the University Parking Garage, will be accessible to the university community and campus visitors.
W&L’s new offsite solar array, now fully operational, represents the university’s biggest leap to date toward an energy-independent future. 
“Mohammad Omer Khalil: Musings,” co-curated by four Washington and Lee students as part of a seminar course in museum studies, will be on display in the Watson Galleries Sept. 28, 2023 through June 1, 2024.
W&L’s Summer Research Scholars program gives students hands-on experience in collaborative research with faculty mentors.
Washington and Lee's Leading Edge program welcomed the Class of 2027 to campus with dynamic programs designed to build community.
Grant funding through W&L's Johnson Program allows student recipients to pursue passion projects and career development around the world.
The Washington and Lee University community will commemorate the tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001, with a memorial service and the placing of 2,977 American flags on Cannan Green.
Washington and Lee students gain new perspectives after internships through the Shepherd Program.
Washington and Lee students explored the world this summer thanks to grant funding opportunities through the Center for International Education.
This summer, Washington and Lee students experienced life in London as part of an immersive program offered through the Williams School.
Marketplace and Café 77 interior dining renovations near completion; demolition for new Williams School building underway.
Effective Aug. 7, parking in Nelson Street lot will serve only student vehicles with an “RS” permit designation.
Total giving to all areas reached an impressive $73.9 million, the second highest total in W&L history.
Washington and Lee’s Museum Artist-in-Residence Program welcomed photographer Stephanie Shih to campus in May to create new work based on the Museums’ art collection.
Work began June 26 and will affect traffic patterns in the area through expected project completion in September.
University Chapel closed June 5 as renovations get underway; Marketplace and Café 77 project is on target for fall completion.
W&L students in this Spring Term’s “Swedish Theater” course were immersed in culture during their three weeks in Stockholm, Sweden.
The 2023 Spring Term course "Threats to Democracy" examined the form of government and explored the current challenges it faces.
Washington and Lee’s Class of 2023 includes nine recipients of the Certificate of International Immersion awarded by W&L’s Center for International Education.
In his remarks, President Will Dudley told the Class of 2023 the ability to think freely, critically, and humanely has prepared them to be conscientious interpreters of the world.
The iconic vines will receive significant pruning to ensure their overall health.
Graham appreciates how W&L empowers students to follow their passions.
Washington and Lee seniors David Onyejekwe ’23, Jake McCabe ’23 and Bailey Keel ’23 have created lasting connections with the local community as volunteer coaches for Lex Lax youth lacrosse.
Professor of Biology Robert Humston’s Spring Term course takes a deep dive into environmental problem-solving.
The project will require periodic modifications to pedestrian and vehicular traffic in the area.
Professor of History Mikki Brock’s Spring Term course explores our fascination with the supernatural.
Reese was motivated by her summer research experience to pursue a career in medicine.
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join a conversation with W&L’s expert faculty on their teaching, research interests and passion projects.
The DeLaney Center’s latest research project connects current students with a rich legacy.
Students and faculty will summarize and display their Spring Term research and coursework.
Seay has been selected for the Goldwater Scholarship to support a research career in science, mathematics and engineering, and also earned the Udall Scholarship in the environmental category.
After choosing W&L off a gut feeling, Bishop says the campus already feels like home.
Students, faculty and staff are encouraged to sell unwanted items and donate any unsold items to benefit local nonprofit organizations. 
W&L neuroscience students recently partnered with an innovative art-making program offered at Kendal at Lexington.
Barringer appreciates the learning experience he gained during his summer internship, both professionally and personally. 
Sharon Mendieta Ramirez ’23 has designed her W&L experience to prepare her for her career as an educator.
Washington and Lee’s campus is thriving thanks to the hard work and dedication of a team that collaborates with Mother Nature year-round.
The two-day conference in March provided a unique opportunity for students to conduct and share original research in a professional setting.
The Leadership Excellence Awards give recognition and thanks to nominated students and organizations for their many efforts on W&L’s campus.
Li is excited to take advantage of the personalized education W&L offers and to explore the Lexington-Rockbridge area.
Jackson Flower will share his research at The Virginia Commonwealth University on April 7.
Tobeason appreciates the balance she’s found at W&L as a student-athlete.
Moye-Green will pursue a master’s degree in criminal justice and penal change at the University of Strathclyde.
Mott will pursue a master’s degree in digital media and society at Cardiff University.
The Fancy Dress committee works year-round to ensure this cherished campus tradition continues.
Mock Convention made its Spring Kickoff event an informative preview of upcoming convention conversations.
Magoti’s summer internship allowed him to apply knowledge from his neuroscience classes while also exposing him to cutting-edge technology in the field.
W&L President Emeritus Kenneth Ruscio addressed new members of ODK during their spring induction ceremony.
Community-Based Learning’s collaboration with Concerned Citizens of Glasgow during Winter 2023 offer students an opportunity to help a community find its voice.
A new Williams School facility and renovations to University Chapel and Sydney Lewis Hall among several projects on the horizon.
The University’s president emeritus will address 50 new initiates of W&L’s Alpha Circle of ODK. 
Boston admires W&L’s Honor System and is inspired by the greater Rockbridge County community. 
Bernbaum is inspired by W&L’s emphasis on community-based learning.
Margalus, faculty director of maker innovation at DePaul University’s Idea Realization Labs, has been named the next Johnson Professor of Entrepreneurship and Leadership and director of the Connolly Center for Entrepreneurship at W&L.
Mock Convention is gathering steam as the organization prepares for its Spring Kickoff event on March 21.