The two-day event will feature a film screening of "Bridge of Spies" and a panel discussion with lawyers who have represented notorious clients.
Chauncey Belknap, a law clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, is the subject of a two-year research project by law students Lizzy Williams '17L and Jess Winn '17L.
The W&L Law team of Tejkaran Bains '17L and Caitlin Peterson '19L placed second in the NBLSA regional moot court competition, earning a spot in nationals next month in Houston.
Third-year law student Stacey LaRiviere got the unique chance to try a jury trial during her externship with the Commonwealth Attorney's Office of Roanoke City.
Sebghatullah Ebrahimi was one of two Afghan law students who came to W&L Law in 2009 to complete a Masters in U.S. Law degree. Now he is back in the U.S. working for an international humanitarian organization.
 Maureen Edobor, a 3L from Dallas, is serving this year as attorney general for the National Black Law Students Association.
Alpha Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, the national leadership honor society, will welcome four honorary and 39 student initiates at Washington and Lee University’s annual Founders Day/ODK Convocation on Jan. 19 at 5 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
3L Chi Ewusi spent the summer working for the Pillsbury law firm in their Washington, D.C. office.
3L Andrea Marshall interned with the EPA while participating in W&L Law's Program in DC, a one-semester, residential program that gives W&L students practice experience in the nation's capital.
The guides help with a variety of tax issues, including determining filing status and information about claiming children as dependents.
Immigrant Rights Clinic director David Baluarte will present at a hearing of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights to discuss the growth of asylum-free zones.
As the Secular Society Women’s Rights Legal Fellow for the ACLU of Virginia, Gail Deady '11L works on issues related to gender equality, reproductive rights and LGBT discrimination.
A new book by Washington and Lee law professor Christopher Bruner explores how “offshore” financial markets emerged and rose to prominence.