The team of Alexis Acosta, Simon Ciccarillo, and Christian Sanchez Leon received the top award for petitioner brief.
In an article for the Columbia Law School Blue Sky blog, Parella explores the ways in which corporate stakeholders influence corporate actors.
Maier has been named as the Distinguished Bankruptcy Law Student for the Fourth Circuit.
Toles, a member of the W&L Board of Trustees, was recently named a fellow of one of the premier legal associations in North America.
The article looks at current instability involving corporate shareholder voting rights, examining it through a historical lens.
The article outlines the historical underpinnings of corporate cooperation, and expands upon the literature considering the structural, constitutional, and normative issues with corporate cooperation.
In an article for the ECGI blog, Haan challenges a central assumption of early 20th century corporate law.
The team of Jack Perryman ‘25L and Jack Kellerman ‘25L won best brief and were the runners-up at the event.
The article takes the form of a fictional narrative evoking George Orwell's classic novel to examine flaws in the legal system.
The pioneering online and open-access journal sees its impact in recent top ranking from Google Scholar.
Woody, a corporate law scholar, and Drumbl, an expert in international law, were recognized for their outstanding scholarly work.
The article examines confidentiality agreements that operate to prevent employees from accepting new positions under threat of breach of contract.
Hasbrouck reviewed "Shielded: How the Police Became Untouchable" by Joanna Schwartz.
The article, "Delegated Corporate Voting and the Deliberative Franchise," examines a shift in the shareholder voting process that could impact wealth maximization.
Woody is among 13 new members to join the Board and will serve a three-year term.
Wilson appears at number 14 on the list as she begins her presidency of the Association of American Law Schools.
The article examines how corporations are affecting foreign policy by using economic means to reward or punish countries involved in conflict.
Professor Alan Trammell published "The False Promise of Jurisdiction Stripping."
Professor Sarah Haan published "Women in Shareholder Activism."
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck published "Democratizing Abolition."
Jordan Hicks ‘24L and Fenja Schick-Malone ‘24L will be honored for their contributions to the Law Review.
Prof. Kish Parella published "International Law in the Boardroom."
Prof. Karen Woody published "Caremark's Butterfly Effect."
W&L Law Dean Melanie Wilson has announced the annual awards that recognize faculty members for their accomplishments as teachers and scholars and for service to the school.
Prof. Josh Fairfield published "Making Virtual Things."
Beth Belmont has been named Director of Experiential Education, and Brandon Hasbrouck will lead the Frances Lewis Law Center.
Prof. Matt Boaz published "Speculative Immigration Policy."
Prof. Russ Miller published "Pandemic as Transboundary Harm: Lessons from the Trail Smelter Arbitration."
Seaman joined the Washington and Lee Law faculty in 2012.  His research and teaching interests include intellectual property, property, and election law and voting rights.
Alan Trammell will present "The False Promise of Jurisdiction Stripping," which is forthcoming in the Columbia Law Review.
The Washington and Lee University School of Law celebrated its 168th commencement on Friday, May 12, awarding 106 juris doctor degrees.
Johanna Bond, Sydney and Frances Lewis Professor of Law at W&L Law, has been named as the next Dean of Rutgers Law School. Bond will assume her role at Rutgers on July 3, 2023.
Baluarte will teach in the Refugee Law Clinic and assist in the development of clinical legal education more broadly at the Iberoamericana University.
Judge Carlton Reeves of the U.S. District for the Southern District of Mississippi cited Hasbrouck's article "The Antiracist Constitution."
The teams earned honors for best petitioner and best respondent briefs at the NBLSA conference.
Ben Davis, a visiting professor at W&L Law, received the 2022 Outstanding Contribution to Diversity in ADR award from the International Institute for Conflict Prevention and Resolution (CPR).
As an international research fellow, Professor Parella will help research the role of social evaluations in business and society. 
Professor Carla Laroche published "Black Women and Voter Suppression."
Lisa Hedrick, partner and chair of the M&A and Finance practice group at the firm Hirschler Fleischer, has been recognized for her work in the field.
Charisma Hunter ‘23L and Kobie Crosley ‘23L took first place in the competition and also took top honors with the Best Petitioner Brief award.
CAP helps museums improve the care of their collections by providing support for a general conservation assessment of the museum’s objects and buildings.
Part memoir/part biography, the book tells the story of the Reverend Russ Ford, who served as the head chaplain on Virginia’s death row for eighteen years.
As a member of the NAC, Woody will review decisions rendered in FINRA disciplinary and membership proceedings.
The scholarship of Prof. Brandon Hasbrouck was downloaded nearly 13,500 times during 2022, placing him 16th on a list combining scholars from all categories of legal research.
Professor Adedayo Abah will travel to Tanzania to help build a master’s degree program in communications at the University of Dar es Salaam.
Professors Joshua Fairfield and Kish Parella were recognized for their outstanding scholarly work.
The AALS House of Representatives voted to accept Wilson’s nomination as the 2023 President-elect. Wilson has served the AALS in numerous capacities, including membership on its Executive Committee since 2020.
Recent articles by Sarah Haan on sexism in corporate governance were featured in a commentary by New York Times business and economic columnist Peter Coy.
Michelle Lyon Drumbl, Robert O. Bentley Professor of Law and Director of the Tax Clinic at the Washington and Lee University School of Law, has been named as the next Associate Dean for Academic Affairs.
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck published "Reimagining Public Safety."
Prof. Brandon Hasbrouck published "Movement Constitutionalism." 
Prof. Brandon Hasbrouck published "On Lenity: What Justice Gorsuch Didn’t Say" examining the decision in Wooden v. United States.
Professor James Moliterno's recent publications include the third edition of "Global Issues in the Legal Profession."
Professor J.D. King published "Juries, Democracy, and Petty Crime."
Professor Carliss Chatman published "We Shouldn't Need Roe."
Professor Heather Kolinsky published "Storytelling, The Sound of Music, And Special Teams: Revisiting Some Basic Legal Writing Techniques With Fresh Eyes."
Prof. Alex Klein published "When Police Volunteer to Kill."
Jonathan Thomas, a member of the Law Class of 2024, has been chosen for a 2022 Disaster Resilience Program Fellowship through Equal Justice Works.
W&L Law professor Sarah Haan has been named to be the inaugural Class of 1958 Uncas and Anne McThenia Professor of Law. Her appointment is effective July 1, 2022. 
Professor David Baluarte published "Refugees Under Duress: International Law and the Serious Nonpolitical Crime Bar."
Michelle Cosby, Assistant Dean of Legal Information Services and Professor of Practice, has been selected to attend the Harvard Graduate School of Education Leadership Institute for Academic Librarians.
Prof. Matt Boaz published "Practical Abolition: Universal Representation as an Alternative to Immigration Detention."
Prof. Josh Fairfield published "'You Keep Using That Word': Why Privacy Doesn’t Mean What Lawyers Think."
Tara Blackwell, a member of the Law Class of 2024, has been chosen for a 2022 Rural Summer Legal Corps Fellowship.
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck Published "Movement Judges."
Prof. Chris Seaman, along with coauthor Thuan Tran '21L, published “Intellectual Property and Tabletop Games.” 
"Classroom Insiders," a podcast produced by Prof. Karen Woody and her students, has been honored by the Academy of Interactive and Visual Arts.
Elizabeth Grist has been awarded a Fulbright research grant to Melbourne, Australia, to study the stigma and barriers associated with receiving medication for opioid use disorder.
Prof. James Moliterno published "Introducing Students to Ethics and Professionalism Challenges in Virtual Communication."
Three members of the Class of 2022 will spend seven months in the Teaching Assistant Program in France (TAPIF) teaching English to public school.
Carley will serve as an English language teaching assistant in a school in the former Soviet republic.
The Washington and Lee University School of Law celebrated its 167th commencement on Friday, May 13, awarding 119 juris doctor degrees.
Prof. Josh Fairfield published “Governing the Interface Between Natural and Formal Language in Smart Contracts.”
Prof. Kish Parella published "Contractual Stakeholderism"
The Leadership Excellence Awards give recognition and thanks to nominated students and organizations for their many efforts that contribute to making W&L the special place that it is.
W&L’s Alpha Circle of ODK, the national leadership honor society, inducted 50 new members in its private spring induction ceremony on campus April 1.
Each scholar is awarded $7,500 to support undergraduate research in their junior or senior year.
The Phi Beta Kappa chapter at Washington and Lee University welcomed 57 students into the prestigious honor society. 
Rădulescu's plays capture the challenges and triumphs faced by immigrants and refugees.
Prof. Sarah Haan published "Corporate Governance and the Feminization of Capital."
King co-edited a book as a part of Penn State Press' "Refiguring Modernism" series.   
Cambridge University Press will publish Marcos Perez's book on Argentina's Unemployed Workers' Movement.
Professor Barton Myers was selected as one of 10 Gilder Lehrman Scholarly Fellows in 2021.
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck published "The Antiracist Constitution."
Larsen will spend the next academic year studying at the Budapest Semesters in Mathematics and participating in a research group at the Alfréd Rényi Institute of Mathematics.
Research by Alexander and Williams on Thomas Jefferson’s “Manual and the Modern Rules of the U.S. Congress” is featured in the spring 2022 edition of Fine Books & Collections magazine.
Moye-Green will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton.
Professor Jill Fraley published "Against Court Packing, or a Plea to Formally Amend the Constitution."
The Virginia Library Association is the primary statewide professional association for public, academic and special librarians and libraries in Virginia.
Lexington's Downtown Books will host W&L Professor Domnica Radulescu for a book launch on Jan. 27 at 4:30 p.m.
Jamie Goodin ’10 was named Member of the Year.
Matthew Loar published a chapter in the "The Oxford Handbook of Heracles."
Professor Rebecca Benefiel discusses the role of graffiti in the ancient Roman town of Pompeii.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Professor Carliss Chatman published "Corporate Family Matters."
This year, 14 W&L students won honors in the Classical Association of the Middle West and South Latin translation exam.
Hellwig will take a leave of absence from W&L to lead the program, which is considered the premier graduate tax program in the country.
The anthology consists of 15 essays in Spanish and English that offer a fresh look at Spanish metafiction, not just in literature but also in television, film, theatre, photography and art.
Lynn Rainville discusses Black cemetery preservation in a recent NBC News article.  
Professor Cody Watson's paper analyzes the use of deep learning in software engineering research.