Lexington's Downtown Books will host W&L Professor Domnica Radulescu for a book launch on Jan. 27 at 4:30 p.m.
Jessie van Eerden, an award-winning author, will give a public lecture on her latest novel on Nov. 15 at 6 p.m. in Leyburn Library’s Northen Auditorium. 
Jeremy Weissman will talk about his recent book, “The Crowdsourced Panopticon: Conformity and Control on Social Media,” on March 31.
Seidule will discuss his new book, "Robert E. Lee and Me: A Southerner's Reckoning with the Myth of the Lost Cause.”
Lesley Wheeler, Henry S. Fox Professor of English at Washington and Lee University and poetry editor for Shenandoah magazine, will give a “spooky-themed” author talk on Oct. 27 at 7 p.m.
The event is free and open to the public, and books will be available to purchase following the reading.
Shrayer will read from and discuss his new book, “A Russian Immigrant: Three Novellas.”
Joukhadar will read from and discuss his new novel, “The Thirty Names of Night.”
Coddington’s book is titled “Aggregating the News: Secondhand Knowledge and the Erosion of Journalistic Authority.”
The public reading is free and open to the public.
The duo will be discussing their new book, “Superhero Thought Experiments.”
The reading is free and open to the public, with books for sale following the event.
The talk is free and open to the public.
Camp’s lecture, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Discovering Baghdad: How Writing My Father’s Story Took Me to the Tigris.” 
In his lecture, which is free and open to the public, Phillips will discuss his newest book “Looming Civil War: How Nineteenth-Century Americans Imagined the Future.”
Alexander’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “The Untold Story of Africa's Migrant and Refugee Crisis."
 Aimee Nezhukumatathil will  give a public reading from her work on Jan. 14 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. 
The talk is free and open to the public, and refreshments will be provided.
In his talk, which is free and open to the public, Barstow will discuss his coverage of the Trump administration and other projects.
The reading will be Oct. 18 at 8:15 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. 
O’Neil’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled, “How Big Data Promotes Inequality and Threatens Democracy.” 
Lunch will be served, and the event is free and open to the public; however, RSVP is required by Oct. 22 to oconnells@wlu.edu.
Bell will discuss her second book, “Fighting King Coal: The Challenges to Micromobilization in Central Appalachia.”
Professor Bill Patch publishes book on the Labor Movement’s political influence on German democracy.
A reception and book sale will follow the reading, which is free and open to the public.
Tom Wolfe '51 will be in attendance.
Smith has edited Shenandoah since 1995 and received a 2008 Virginia Governor’s Arts Award for publishing excellence. 
The title of his talk is “The Hamlet Fire and the Deadly Costs of Cheap.”
Gay’s poetry often explores questions of race, as well as his symbiotic passions for gardening and community activism.
Jenefer Davies will talk about her recent book, “Aerial Dance: A Guide to Dance with Rope and Harness.”
Leyburn Library's Author Talk Series will begin this academic year with a talk by W&L Associate Professor of History Barton Myers and Brian McKnight, a history professor at U.Va.-Wise.