The article takes the form of a fictional narrative evoking George Orwell's classic novel to examine flaws in the legal system.
Hasbrouck reviewed "Shielded: How the Police Became Untouchable" by Joanna Schwartz.
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck published "Democratizing Abolition."
Annual Provost’s Lecture celebrates W&L faculty for excellence in scholarship and teaching.
W&L Law Dean Melanie Wilson has announced the annual awards that recognize faculty members for their accomplishments as teachers and scholars and for service to the school.
Beth Belmont has been named Director of Experiential Education, and Brandon Hasbrouck will lead the Frances Lewis Law Center.
Judge Carlton Reeves of the U.S. District for the Southern District of Mississippi cited Hasbrouck's article "The Antiracist Constitution."
The scholarship of Prof. Brandon Hasbrouck was downloaded nearly 13,500 times during 2022, placing him 16th on a list combining scholars from all categories of legal research.
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck published "Reimagining Public Safety."
Prof. Brandon Hasbrouck published "Movement Constitutionalism." 
Prof. Brandon Hasbrouck published "On Lenity: What Justice Gorsuch Didn’t Say" examining the decision in Wooden v. United States.
Six members of the faculty were recognized for their contributions in the classroom, to scholarship and to experiential education.
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck Published "Movement Judges."
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck published "The Antiracist Constitution."
Six members of the faculty were recognized for their contributions in the classroom, to scholarship and to experiential education.
In a commentary in The Nation, Alex Klein and Brandon Hasbrouck discuss South Carolina's newest execution method.
W&L presents a monthlong schedule of events celebrating Black History Month.
In a commentary for The Nation, W&L Law professor Brandon Hasbrouck argues for counting Black votes twice to overcome unequal representation.
In a Richmond Times commentary, Hasbrouck discusses court packing and a new standard for justices on the highest court in the land.
Members of the Critical Race Theory class at W&L Law recently took a short field trip "across the ravine" to meet with Dr. Lynn Rainville, director of institutional history, for a discussion about the University's ties to slavery.
Five members of the faculty were recognized for their contributions in the classroom, to scholarship and to experiential education.
In a new piece in Slate, Hasbrouck argues that Congress can transform policing and promote racial justice through the 13th Amendment.