The show is scheduled for Jan. 27 Tickets are required.
Washington and Lee will present a joint concert featuring the University Jazz Ensemble and the Vosbein Magee Big Band on Nov. 11 at 8 p.m.
"Daily Ethics: How Individual Choices and Habits Express Our Values and Shape Our World” kicks off Sept. 27 with a keynote address by Professor of Philosophy Cheshire Calhoun.
De León will give a virtual lecture on May 4 at 5 p.m. as part of W&L's Mudd Center for Ethics series.
The April 29 conversation with Raisman, U.S. Olympic gymnast and bestselling author, is open to the W&L community.
The university’s performance will be streamed online beginning March 30.
Bioh's hit comedy "School Girls; Or, The African Mean Girls Play" will be screened online March 16, and a virtual talk by Bioh will occur March 18.
Poet Heid Erdrich will give a public poetry reading on Feb. 8 at 6 p.m.
Michael Barsanti will be the featured speaker at W&L’s virtual Founders Day/Omicron Delta Kappa Convocation on Jan. 19 at 5 p.m.
The show is free and open to the public to view online.
W&L will present “What Happened Last Night?” virtually on Nov. 4 at 6 p.m.
Guitarist Bhattacharya, who brings universal appeal to his pioneering fusion of classical Indian ragas and bluesy Western music, will perform on Nov. 14 at 7:30 p.m.
Domnica Radulescu, the Edwin A. Morris Professor of Comparative Literature at W&L, presents her newest co-edited book, “Voices on the Move: An Anthology by and about Refugees.”
The show is free and open to the public to view online.
In October, Washington and Lee University will present Tony Award winner and five-time Tony Award nominee Laura Benanti in two streamed events.
Rice's lecture, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Cultural Norms and the Export of the W&L Honor System."
The performance will run Oct. 15-18, and it is free and open to the public to watch via livestream.
Dr. Guelzo will deliver this year’s lecture, “The Mystery of Robert E. Lee,” virtually.
The lecture, which is free and open to the public to view via Zoom, is titled “Climate Change and Pacific Islander Eco-Poetics.”
The Entrepreneurship Summit will take place online on Friday and Saturday, Oct. 2–3.
The panel discussion, titled "Antiracism, White Activists, and Black Freedom," is free and open to the public to watch virtually.
The acclaimed group is known worldwide for promoting social justice and human rights for all people and genders. The virtual exhibit and lecture are free and open to the public.
W&L's studio art majors present their senior projects in an online exhibition.
Her talk is titled "Not Everything That Counts Can Be Counted: Observations on the Historic and Contemporary Role of the Liberal Arts.”
Her talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled "Barely Legal: Political Ads, Social Media and #sponcon."
Moyers will speak on addiction and recovery.
The conference is titled Ethics and Technology: Surveillance, Civil Rights, and Cyber-Security.
The event is free and open to the public, and books will be available to purchase following the reading.
Writer Branden Jacobs-Jenkins, who based this play on the anonymous 15th-century "Everyman," presents a new take on an old story and the old question of what happens when we cross over to the other side.
Quashie teaches black cultural and literary studies at Brown University.
Having played in every kind of venue imaginable, from coffee houses to world-class concert halls, Haimovitz creates music for every kind of audience.
A panel discussion will feature six leading business journalists who cover big financial and economic stories.
Shrayer will read from and discuss his new book, “A Russian Immigrant: Three Novellas.”
The university’s first Black Future Leaders Experience Conference will take place on Feb. 8.
Drum Tao’s stage is created through performances and expressions consisting of “Wadaiko-drums.”
The title of Lynn Rainville’s talk is “Untold Stories of Founders, Leaders and Other Visionaries at W&L.”
Coddington’s book is titled “Aggregating the News: Secondhand Knowledge and the Erosion of Journalistic Authority.”
Washington and Lee's week-long celebration of the life and legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. will include an address by Ruby Bridges, who helped to integrate New Orleans public schools.
The Grammy Award-winning male a cappella group is in its 41st season.
The ceremony will take place Jan. 20 in the Senshin’an Tea Room.
Tickets to the show can be ordered online or at the box office.
 “A Literary Field Guide to Southern Appalachia” contains poems from three W&L faculty members.
The event is free and open to the public.
The concert is free, and no tickets are required.
 Call the Lenfest Center box office today at 540-458-8000 to reserve tickets.
Eubanks' talk is titled "The Shakedown State: Digital Debt, Economic Inequality and Automation in Public Services."
The public reading is free and open to the public.
Chaisson’s lecture, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Cosmic Evolution.”
The show is free and open to the public.
 Toplak is a constitutional scholar and election law expert at the University of Maribor, Slovenia.
Tickets are free, but required.
An exhibition of photographic works by Texas-based artist Mari Hernandez will open in Washington and Lee’s Staniar Gallery Nov. 5.
Miranda’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “’Coyote Learns a New Trick’: Beth Brant and Two-Spirit Literatures.”
Arkin is a roboticist and roboethicist.
The conversation will address how the news media grapples with ethics in confrontational times. 
Campbell's talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled "The Giants of Africa: What's Next for South Africa and Nigeria?"
She is the assistant director of the Furious Flower Poetry Center
The reading is free and open to the public, with books for sale following the event.
The discussion is free and open to the public.
The focus will be the "1619 Project" and the U.S. Constitution.
The program will include 14 works, all of which were performed by Gaylard in recitals between 1987 and 2017.
The works will be on display through Sept. 27, with an artist’s talk and reception on Sept. 18. 
The talk is free and open to the public.
The concert is free and open to the public, and no tickets are required.
Although W&L has produced student-cast operas in the past, this is the first time students have been able to enroll in a credit-bearing opera workshop.
Camp’s lecture, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Discovering Baghdad: How Writing My Father’s Story Took Me to the Tigris.” 
Gastañaga's lecture, which is free and open to the public, is titled "Racial Justice at the Ballot Box: Moving Beyond Restoration of Rights." 
The weekend’s seminar will feature Delia Owens, author of the critically acclaimed debut novel “Where the Crawdads Sing."
The show will be on display from April 22–May 24.
The show is free and open to the public. 
 The concert is open to the public, and no tickets are required.
The performance is a preview of the group’s upcoming tour of Scotland.
 The show is free and open to the public.
Each spring, the W&L art department showcases the senior theses of studio majors in a professional gallery setting.
Area day camps and sleepover camps will be available to share information on their 2019 summer programs.
Baron became executive editor of the Post in 2013. There, he oversees print and digital news operations and a staff of more than 800 journalists.
In his lecture, which is free and open to the public, Phillips will discuss his newest book “Looming Civil War: How Nineteenth-Century Americans Imagined the Future.”
Yeboah's talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Africa Economic Transformation: The Role of Youth.”
Alexander’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “The Untold Story of Africa's Migrant and Refugee Crisis."
Their public performance is titled “Old Made New.”
Talamantes has released two albums: “Heaven and Earth: a Duke Ellington Songbook” and “Canciones Españolas.”
Don't miss the one-night performance of “Antigone” on Feb. 8 at 7:30 p.m. in the Keller Theatre.