Laura Murambadoro ’26 brings varied interests, a collaborative leadership style and a passion for community engagement to W&L’s campus.
The W&L professor of politics will present on this year’s Nobel Peace Prize winner, Narges Mohammadi, on March 8 in Leyburn 128.
Politics professor Clyde Wang offers perspective on government intervention to combat declining birth rates in China.
Mathen’s talk “Dilemmas of Democracy” will be held Nov. 13.
Kaplan’s talk “Between Empire and Anarchy from the Mediterranean to China” will be held Nov. 8.
The fourth edition of “Comparative Politics” is a collaboration between faculty in W&L’s Department of Politics and Department of Sociology and Anthropology.
Bernbaum is inspired by W&L’s emphasis on community-based learning.
New members will serve a six-year term supporting Dean Rob Straughan and the school’s faculty members.
Professor Lynn Uzzell shared her expertise on the disputed document known as the Pinckney Plan.
W&L Law graduate met with professor Brian Alexander’s Congress and the Legislative Process class to discuss Thomas Jefferson’s Manual of Parliamentary Practice.
The panel will discuss "What Happened Last Night?” on Nov. 9 at 6 p.m. in Newcomb Hall.
Seth Cantey is an associate professor of politics and a core faculty member for the Middle East and South Asian Studies program.
Zoila Ponce de León recognized by the Journal for Latin American Studies.
Zoila Ponce de León will utilize the grant to study immigration and deportation in the U.S. and Brazil. 
Brendan Smith ’24 worked in the British House of Commons as a parliamentary research intern in London.
Ponce de Leon's paper "Women Want an Answer! Field Experiments on Elected Officials and Gender Bias" was featured in the Harvard Gendar Action Portal
Lily Mott '23 is interning this summer at News Over Audio in Dublin, Ireland, where she is finding fulfillment at the intersection of politics and journalism.
The article is titled “Lava Jato deepened political chaos in Peru and splashes the 18 presidential candidates.”
Brian Alexander will also moderate a panel discussion, "Congressional Norms in an Era of Conflict," via Zoom on April 8, at 12 p.m.
Bob Strong will also participate in a panel discussion about the film and the Carter presidency on April 13 at 7 p.m.
Twelve students at W&L are creating their own version of the U.S. Constitution in Professor Lynn Uzzell’s politics course.
The series will present two events, "Looking at Blackness" and "Legislative Leverage: Democratic Processes as Activism,” in late January.
Lucas Morel joined other panelists in explaining how William Shakespeare’s work relates to American constitutional values.
In a recent op-ed, W&L Professor of Politics Lucas Morel argues that in agreeing to lead Washington College after the Civil War, Lee set an example of how to accept defeat and move on.
In his latest book, Morel explores how Lincoln’s most vital ideas are traced back to the country’s founders.
In the discussion, Morel explains why Juneteenth is a uniquely American holiday.
Morel’s recent interview was included in “The 1619 Project Exposed: A Special Edition of the American Mind Podcast.”
Eubanks' talk is titled "The Shakedown State: Digital Debt, Economic Inequality and Automation in Public Services."
Dickovick, who taught at W&L for 14 years, made a lasting impact on communities around the world.
Short's lecture is part of the broader Washington Term Speaker Series, “From the Colonnade to the Capitol… and Back.”
In their discussion, the duo will address "Transatlantic relations between Poland and the United States."
O’Neil’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled, “How Big Data Promotes Inequality and Threatens Democracy.”