The team of Alexis Acosta, Simon Ciccarillo, and Christian Sanchez Leon received the top award for petitioner brief.
Starting in July, Bishop will participate in a year-long cultural immersion program in Germany.
Maier has been named as the Distinguished Bankruptcy Law Student for the Fourth Circuit.
The Critical Language Scholarship Program funds a summer of overseas language and cultural immersion.
Washington and Lee’s Center for International Education awarded deBuchananne funding to study Arabic at the University of Jordan this summer. 
A four-person team comprised of John Schleider ‘24, Diwesh Kumar ‘24, Bradford Bush ’25 and Drew Thompson ‘25 claimed the $3,000 top prize for their pitch on CVS Health.
Jessica Pachuca ’25 and Gabe Miller ’25 will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Carnegie Mellon University this summer.
The team of Jack Perryman ‘25L and Jack Kellerman ‘25L won best brief and were the runners-up at the event.
The pioneering online and open-access journal sees its impact in recent top ranking from Google Scholar.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Yurechko ’24 is the university’s first Marshall Scholar.
Josh Rassin ’24 will begin his two-year placement with a startup company following graduation.
Megan Dufault ’24 is studying the risks that environmental pollutants pose to fetal development.
The Elmes Pathfinder Prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
The Williams School and Department of Economics provided the opportunity for students to network and explore careers in the field of economics.
Lucy Worthy ’24 assisted in the research and helped publish the results alongside two W&L alumni. 
Katie Yurechko ’24 presented research related to content creators circumventing TikTok’s content moderation algorithms.
Jordan Hicks ‘24L and Fenja Schick-Malone ‘24L will be honored for their contributions to the Law Review.
Caraballo is one of 369 students from across the U.S. to receive the merit scholarship from the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
De Zoysa is the university’s first recipient of the two-year scholarship for juniors interested in a public service career.
Washington and Lee is the only liberal arts college to be named among the top five institutions for producing Boren Scholarship recipients.
Mengying Liu will use the funds to research high-throughput crystallographic mapping in the United Kingdom.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
Stankewich has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Uganda.
Markley will start their role in the Japanese Exchange and Teaching (JET) Program by early August 2023.
Christy Childs ’26 and Griffin Conti ’26 will receive funding to study foreign languages this summer.
All funds will support W&L students with Professor George Bent’s digital humanities project “Florence As It Was.”
W&L Law student Charles Scharf '25L ran school best times in the 5K and 10K, all while dealing with the rigors of 1L year.
The David L. Boren Scholarship supports the intensive study of languages deemed important to U.S. interests.
Professors Nadia Ayoub and Kyle Friend, and students Jamal Magoti ’23, Maria Luzaran ’23, Cooper Lazo ’24 and Eman Muamar ’24 all contributed to the paper that appeared in the open science platform Frontiers.
The Phi Beta Kappa chapter at Washington and Lee University welcomed 49 students into the prestigious honor society.
Katie Yurechko ’24 presented on how algorithm awareness impacts algospeak use on TikTok.
Seay has been selected for the Goldwater Scholarship to support a research career in science, mathematics and engineering, and also earned the Udall Scholarship in the environmental category.
Talton has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English to the Roma student population in Hungary.
Boussy has been awarded a Fulbright-Nehru research grant to study Buddhist shrines and temples in India.
Jana Hulsey ’25 and Jalen Todd ’25 will work with programs in Washington, D.C. for eight weeks over the summer. 
Lakpa Sherpa ’25 and Ignas Volcokas ’25 designed a personal learning assistant that utilizes the power of artificial intelligence.
Rojas has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Mexico.
Professor Eric Moffa and Jake Winston ’24 penned the article which appeared in The Social Studies Journal.
Connor has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Germany.
Hawley has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Spain.
Godsey has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Taiwan.
Tartakovsky has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Azerbaijan, his parents’ homeland.
Pernell has been awarded a Young Professional Journalist Program Award to conduct research and gain career experience in Germany.
Dixon has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Taiwan.
Jaden Keuhner discusses raising money for Gold Star Memorial in Rockbridge County.
Jackson Flower will share his research at The Virginia Commonwealth University on April 7.
Dylan Santella ’25 presented “Gender and The Face: Expanding Upon the Butlerian Model of Ethics” at the undergraduate conference held March 31 at Swarthmore College.
Moye-Green will pursue a master’s degree in criminal justice and penal change at the University of Strathclyde.
Mott will pursue a master’s degree in digital media and society at Cardiff University.
The Beinecke Scholarship Program provides funds for post-graduate study to students of unusual promise.
Ellie Penner ’23, a Washington and Lee University senior, has received a Critical Language Scholarship (CLS) to study Bangla this summer in Kolkata, West Bengal, India.
Washington and Lee's Center for International Education awarded two students funding to study Arabic at the University of Jordan this summer.
The Elmes Pathfinder Prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
Scott Holcomb ’23 and Josh Fingerhut ’24 claimed a $2,500 prize for their pitch on Diamondback Energy.
Oluwakuyide will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at the University of Washington this summer.
Etter plans to attend graduate school and pursue a career in mathematics.
First-year Johnson Scholar to offer preliminary research on foot-limb dominance and neuromuscular asymmetry in pediatric soccer players.
Mosher has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to teach English in Kazakhstan. He will also spend this summer receiving intensive Russian language training in Tbilisi, Georgia.
"Classroom Insiders," a podcast produced by Prof. Karen Woody and her students, has been honored by the Academy of Interactive and Visual Arts.
Elizabeth Grist has been awarded a Fulbright research grant to Melbourne, Australia, to study the stigma and barriers associated with receiving medication for opioid use disorder.
Three members of the Class of 2022 will spend seven months in the Teaching Assistant Program in France (TAPIF) teaching English to public school.
Stankewich received a David L. Boren Scholarship from the National Security Education Program to study abroad in Tanzania in fall 2022.
Wilkerson received an All-American Attorney Award from the American Mock Trial Association.
Tripathi will teach English to students in Colombia for 10 months.
Keeley will live in a German community for one academic year to teach English to students in a local school.
The Beinecke Scholarship Program provides funds for post-graduate study to students of unusual promise.
The Leadership Excellence Awards give recognition and thanks to nominated students and organizations for their many efforts that contribute to making W&L the special place that it is.
Each scholar is awarded $7,500 to support undergraduate research in their junior or senior year.
The Phi Beta Kappa chapter at Washington and Lee University welcomed 57 students into the prestigious honor society. 
Riter will spend the next academic year volunteering with a community organization, working as an English teaching assistant and taking courses at the University of Graz.
Larsen will spend the next academic year studying at the Budapest Semesters in Mathematics and participating in a research group at the Alfréd Rényi Institute of Mathematics.
Research by Alexander and Williams on Thomas Jefferson’s “Manual and the Modern Rules of the U.S. Congress” is featured in the spring 2022 edition of Fine Books & Collections magazine.
Moye-Green will attend the PPIA Junior Summer Institute at Princeton.
Kristin Barkemeyer ‘22L and Max Blumenthal ‘24L were semifinalists in the competition, and Barkemeyer was named Best Oralist.
The Gilman Scholarship Program offers awards of up to $5,000 to U.S. undergraduate students who are Pell Grant recipients.
The grant provides funds to support W&L student projects across the United States and worldwide.
The Elmes Pathfinder Prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
Performance at the VMEA conference is the highest honor for a university  choir student in Virginia. This is the second time W&L has made VMEA.
This year, 14 W&L students won honors in the Classical Association of the Middle West and South Latin translation exam.
Charisma Hunter '23L becomes first African American Woman on Law Review.
Huber is one of 20 members of the cabinet's sixth cohort, representing diverse Jewish backgrounds and experiences globally.
Campbell has won a Gilman Scholarship to do an internship in Barcelona, Spain.
Stern will travel to South Korea this summer to study in Seoul, South Korea.
Johnston has won a Gilman Scholarship to study abroad with Middlebury Abroad at Mohammed V University in Rabat, Morocco.
The program offers participants the opportunity to work in France for seven months, teaching English to French students of all ages.
James Ricks ’21 has received a Fulbright creative grant to Nepal to photograph patients and healthcare providers at a one-of-a-kind health clinic.
Lorena Terroba Urruchua '21 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship (ETA) to Spain.
Ramonah Gibson '20 has received a Fulbright United Kingdom (U.K.) Partnership Award to complete her master's degree in creative writing scriptwriting at the University of East Anglia.
Her project, “Age and Growth of Fan Mussel (Pinna nobilis) in Mar Menor,” will take her to Calpe, in Spain this fall.
Clay Chadwick ’22, Demmanuel Gonzalez ’21, Caleb Peña ’21, Carolina Rubio Regalado ’22 and Pamela Steimel ’22 were recognized in March by the Virginia Teachers of Promise Institute.
James Ricks ’21 plans to work this summer with the Oda Foundation in Nepal.
Each scholar is awarded $7,500 to support undergraduate research in their junior or senior year.
Under Ellen Mayock's direction, student members of W&L's English for Speakers of Other Languages group will present at the virtual conference on March 25.
Six undergraduate students received Critical Language Scholarships, which will provide them the opportunity to study language intensively during summer 2021.
The winner of the 16th International Choral Competition – Gallus-Maribor automatically qualifies for the European Grand Prix of Choral Singing Competition in 2022.
The Elmes Pathfinder Prize recognizes a student who has shown extraordinary promise in psychological science through outstanding scholarship in basic or applied psychology.
Nickodem’s USTA position with Fulbright Austria starts in September 2020.
Keller has received a USTA position with Fulbright Austria starting in October 2020.
Rivers has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Mexico starting January 2021.