Lynn Rainville discusses her research and field work with Black cemeteries.
The Museums are celebrating Black History Month with an exhibition of works by artist Sharon Norwood, who questions historical constructed identity and explores the intersection of race and beauty.
Lynn Rainville discusses Black cemetery preservation in a recent NBC News article.  
Lynn Rainville was recently featured in the Burlington County Times.
W&L presents a monthlong schedule of events celebrating Black History Month.
In the article, Rainville discusses how Sweet Briar College remembers the enslaved people and free laborers who built – and are buried beneath – its campus.
Lynn Rainville will participate in the virtual symposium "Revealing Fayetteville – A New Landscape" on Nov. 2 from noon to 3:30 p.m. 
Dr. Guelzo will deliver this year’s lecture, “The Mystery of Robert E. Lee,” virtually.
The Washington and Lee University library is working to preserve documents relating to COVID-19 and diversity and inclusion discussions.
Washington and Lee University’s Native American Cohort invites the community to celebrate Native American Heritage with special events throughout the academic year.
The panel discussion, titled "Antiracism, White Activists, and Black Freedom," is free and open to the public to watch virtually.
Members of the Critical Race Theory class at W&L Law recently took a short field trip "across the ravine" to meet with Dr. Lynn Rainville, director of institutional history, for a discussion about the University's ties to slavery.
The Africana Studies Program at W&L, in partnership with the Rupert H. Johnson Jr. Program in Leadership and Integrity, will host a series of events focused on activism and Black life. It kicks off Aug. 26 with a panel discussion featuring three W&L faculty members.
For anyone participating in online learning during this time, there are several resources available through the museums that can help enrich the virtual classroom experience.
The title of Lynn Rainville’s talk is “Untold Stories of Founders, Leaders and Other Visionaries at W&L.”
Lynn Rainville was interviewed for a recent WUSF News article titled “Anthropologist: Building Over African American Cemeteries Not Just A Southern Problem.”
The piece explains Rainville's role at Washington and Lee and the work she is doing on campus.
Rainville's lecture is titled "At Home with the Presidents: An Ethno-Historic Study of Everyday Life at Lee House."