“Mohammad Omer Khalil: Musings,” co-curated by four Washington and Lee students as part of a seminar course in museum studies, will be on display in the Watson Galleries Sept. 28, 2023 through June 1, 2024.
W&L neuroscience students recently partnered with an innovative art-making program offered at Kendal at Lexington.
“OPEN FLOWERS BEAR FRUIT” opens May 1 in the McCarthy Gallery in Holekamp Hall.
The show will be on display in Wilson Hall’s Lykes Atrium in conjunction with Esteban Ramón Pérez’s solo exhibition “Distorted Myths,” which will be on view in the Staniar Gallery Oct. 10 through Nov. 2. 
Washington and Lee’s Staniar Gallery presents “Passage,” a retrospective exhibition of paintings celebrating the career of W&L’s Kathleen Olson. There will be a public reception for the show on May 7 at 5 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
W&L will celebrate the international movement on April 2 from noon to 2 p.m. in Watson Gallery on the W&L campus. 
The Museums are celebrating Black History Month with an exhibition of works by artist Sharon Norwood, who questions historical constructed identity and explores the intersection of race and beauty.
The exhibition titled “American Surrealist, paintings by Donald Nield (1924-1984)” will be on display through Feb. 9. Professor Elliot King will give a public lecture about Nield’s work on Jan. 18 at 5:30 p.m.
The exhibit reflects on women's right to vote.
Professor Christa Bowden presents her newest collaborative art show at Augusta University titled “Cumberland Island: Land, Water, Wind, and Light."
Coco Ellis Howe ’16 and Tani Greenspan ’16 created a successful online art gallery in the middle of a pandemic.
The May 17 event will highlight the exhibit, which is curated by sevens students at W&L as part of a Spring Term course, Seminar in Museum Studies.
The photography exhibit will be on display April 26 through May 28, with a virtual artist talk on May 11 at 5:30 p.m.
In a recent in-class project, seven W&L students used materials found around campus to discuss a broader historical narrative and create a piece now on display in Staniar Gallery.
Professors Leigh Ann Beavers and Chris Gavaler recently published a textbook titled “Creating Comics: A Writer’s and Artist's Guide and Anthology.”
Beavers’ exhibit will appear in Washington and Lee's Staniar Gallery from Jan. 17 through Feb. 18, with a virtual artist talk on Jan. 27 at 5:30 p.m. 
The recent graduates’ work will be on display in Lykes Atrium.
"American Folk" is a series of photographic portraits by West Virginia-based artist Lisa Elmaleh. She will give a virtual artist's talk on Nov. 4 at 5:30 p.m.
Professor de Lissovoy gave an artist’s talk through the Virginia Museum of Contemporary Art.
This plate, a recent gift to W&L's Reeves Museum of Ceramics from local collectors Joan and Jay Crawford, provides a window into Chinese culture and the material lives of one of Virginia’s most prestigious families.  
W&L's studio art majors present their senior projects in an online exhibition.
As Native American Heritage Month kicks off, University Collections of Art and History invites you to see artwork by Native American artists and featuring Native American people and cultures.
For Darcy Olmstead '21 and Lindsey Hewitt '21, analyzing art in the Netherlands and the U.S. with Professor Erich Uffelman has been an educational 'dream come true.'
Students in the Spring Term course Drawing in Place practice observational drawing in a beautiful setting near Lexington.
Professor of Art Christa Bowden's Spring Term course, Antique Photo Processes, focuses entirely on 19th-century photo processes. 
Her scholarship will fund a nine- to 12-month study of small-scale cultural heritage looting operations in the Golden Triangle of India.
At W&L, sustainability starts with a seed and blossoms into sea change. Take a peek inside our gardening and composting effort to see how it's impacting our community — and the future.
University Collections of Art and History recently purchased prints by iconic American artists Thomas Hart Benton and James Abbott McNeill Whistler, and they are already being incorporated into courses in art and art history. 
Lewis Perkins '93, the self-described “liberal arts kid” who received the Distinguished Alumnus Award at his 25th reunion in April, nurtured his creative spirit at W&L. Now he brings that spirit to a nonprofit that encourages sustainability. 
As part of an art class, W&L students built the university’s first earth oven, which will be a permanent fixture in the Campus Garden.
Friends and classmates of Jeanne de Saussure Smith ’08 have dedicated an E. E. Cummings painting to W&L in her memory.
 The show will be on display Oct. 5 – Nov. 1.
Evans will discuss the history behind several fraudulent copies of Lansdowne-style George Washington portraits that were produced based on the original. 
After taking a course at Augusta Correctional Center, two W&L juniors helped to organize an exhibition at the university featuring artwork by artists who are incarcerated. The exhibit is entitled “Unfreedom of Expression.” 
The show will be on view Sept. 1-30. Oring will give a public artist’s talk on Sept. 26 at 5:30 p.m. in Wilson Hall’s Concert Hall.
The $7,000 Virginia Humanities grant will support an upcoming exhibit in Staniar Gallery.
Boldt’s lecture is titled "Conversing a Great Deal with Your Picture: Portraiture and Society in Early Virginia.” 
More than 500 ancient graffiti are now available online through the project website.
After Tucker Hall was restored, University Collections of Art & History worked to find the perfect art to adorn its walls — including four bas-relief sculptures that hung on campus more than 100 years ago.
Staniar Gallery showcases work by the Art Department’s graduating studio majors.
The interactive exhibit will be on display in Staniar Gallery through March 17.
A three-month internship with New York-based artist Taryn Simon presented Sara Dotterer '18 with myriad possibilities for her future career.
Professor George Bent and his team of students are working on a digital recreation of Florence that Bent describes as the “project of his career.”
An independent-study class at W&L allowed students to put together a short animated film from start to finish in only 12 weeks, but it turned out to be much more challenging than they expected.
"The Battle of Minden" will be on display at W&L through the end of Fall Term 2017, when it will return on loan to Mount Vernon.
A new Spring Term class has an English professor and an art professor teaming up to guide students through writing and illustrating a comic book.