A total of 20 new faculty are joining the university this year.
A total of 25 new instructors join the W&L community.
The College, the Williams School and the Law School have combined to hire 25 visiting faculty members and two postdoctoral fellows for 2022-23.
Combined, the College, the Williams School and the Law School have hired 23 Faculty Members.
The May 11 recital in the Wilson Concert Hall will focus on musical associations from Venice.
King co-edited a book as a part of Penn State Press' "Refiguring Modernism" series.   
McCorkle will perform at Lexington Presbyterian Church on Sept. 19 at 3 p.m. No tickets are required.
W&L’s Office of Lifelong Learning presents an inside view of ongoing research from university faculty July 19-23 titled “Beyond the Classroom: Frontiers of Faculty Research.”
The Career Enhancement Fellowship seeks to increase underrepresented junior and other faculty members by creating career development opportunities.
Gordon Ball will read from his recent book, "My San Francisco," on May 13.
Miranda, who retires from W&L this year, will present a public reading titled “How to Love the Burning World” on April 26.
Miranda's new poem, "Torch," was selected as the American Academy of Poets' "Poem-a-Day."
Professor Matthews received an outstanding paper award at the 13th International Conference on Game and Entertainment Technologies.
Ricciardi served as an expert panelist on behavioral finance and retirement planning for the podcast "That Annuity Show" earlier this year.
Mudd Postdoctoral Ethics Fellow Jeremy Weissman recently published a textbook titled "The Crowdsourced Panopticon: Conformity and Control on Social Media."
Professor Strong’s op-ed is titled “Donald Trump and the Stress Test of American Democracy.”
Green will receive the Lucille Clifton Legacy Award from St. Mary’s College of Maryland on March 1. 
Cory Colbert was a recent "Honoree of the Day" on a website that honors Black scholars in the mathematical sciences.
In the article, Rainville discusses how Sweet Briar College remembers the enslaved people and free laborers who built – and are buried beneath – its campus.
   Politics professor Mark Rush published opinion pieces in the Jurist and The Virginian-Pilot in November.
Domnica Radulescu, the Edwin A. Morris Professor of Comparative Literature at W&L, presents her newest co-edited book, “Voices on the Move: An Anthology by and about Refugees.”
The COVID-19 pandemic has failed to hinder Washington and Lee University professors, who have adapted creatively to teach both in person and virtually this term.
Veterans gathered in front of Lee Chapel on Veterans Day to share details of their service and join in a prayer for all service members.
 He will be recognized at a luncheon ceremony in Richmond on Nov. 7.
The Native American Cohort, which was created by faculty and staff with native heritage, aims to illuminate Native American history and culture, beginning with special events for Native American Heritage Month in November.
 The article presents an analysis of the main political events of 2018 in Peru.
The grant will help fund a project to bring professors from the six ACS dance departments to participating campuses and create a model for shared teaching.
The fellowship, made possible by The Lila Wallace – Reader’s Digest Fund, is designed for scholars who explore “Italy in the World.” 
The title of Wayne Dymacek’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is “My Life and Times with Dots and Lines.”
Washington and Lee University’s Martin Davies, associate professor of economics, was appointed a member of the Fulbright Specialist Program for three years.
The group consists of current W&L faculty members Jaime McArdle, violinist, Julia Goudimova, cellist and Timothy Gaylard, pianist. 
W&L History Professor Sarah Horowitz addresses "the upper-class claim to a right to rule — and misrule" in the Washington Post.
In the op-ed, Professor Kevin Finch argues that Virginians should end the debate about debates.
A new book by Harvey Markowitz, associate professor of anthropology, examines Native Americans and Catholic missionaries. 
Mark Rush, Waxberg Professor of Politics and Law at W&L, has recently discussed constitutional amendments, 3D-printed guns and electoral maps.
Strong is the William Lyne Wilson Professor in Political Economy at Washington and Lee.
Strong is the William Lyne Wilson Professor in Political Economy at Washington and Lee.
Elmes taught at Washington and Lee University for 40 years until his retirement in 2007.
Hoover discusses the advantages and disadvantages of a perfect credit score.
Jenefer Davies, associate professor of dance and theater, will be among approximately 25 fellows focusing on their own creative projects at the working retreat.
Joseph Guse, John C. Winfrey Associate Term Professor of Economics, will give a talk in honor of his professorship on Tues., April 3 at 5:00 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. 
Professor Jenefer Davies talks about her new book on aerial dance and the physical and artistic challenges of working against gravity.
Byron Petty, Shuko Watanabe and William McCorkle will perform French, German and Italian works from the baroque.
The associate professor of classics won a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities to support the digitization of Pompeian epigraphy, along with Sara Sprenkle, associate professor of computer science.
Pemberton taught at W&L for 42 years, from 1962 until 2004.
At W&L, Handelman taught popular courses in comparative politics, Chinese politics, Japanese politics, and U.S. foreign policy. 
Futch taught at Washington and Lee University for 46 years, until his retirement in 2008.
Professor Tim Diette testified before the Canadian House of Commons’ Standing Committee on Human Resources, Skills and Social Development and the Status of Persons with Disabilities.
Mark Rush's "A Thanksgiving Prayer" was published in The Roanoke Times on Thanksgiving day.
Mengsu Kong is one of seven foreign languaga teaching assistants on the W&L campus this year.
Johanna Bond, professor of law at Washington and Lee University School of Law, has been appointed associate dean for academic affairs by Dean Brant Hellwig.
During this First Friday’s Gallery Walk in downtown Lexington on Aug. 5, be sure to stop by Sweet Treats Bakery to take a look at Mitch Keller’s solo photography exhibition.
The federal judge overseeing the case of Dylan Roof has approved the request by his attorneys to add Washington and Lee law professor and death penalty specialist David Bruck to the defense team in the case.
Washington and Lee law professor David Baluarte has been named to the advisory council of the Institute on Statelessness and Inclusion, an independent non-profit organization dedicated to promoting an integrated, human rights based response to the injustice of statelessness and exclusion.
On Tuesday, the Supreme Court of Virginia breathed new life into the fight to keep Sweet Briar College open. W&L law professor Robert Danforth co-authored an amicus brief in the case.
A new article by Washington and Lee University Law Professor Susan D. Franck is tackling some of the most topical issues in international arbitration and the legal profession in general.
Washington and Lee law professor and incoming dean Brant Hellwig recently completed a manuscript detailing the historical evolution and jurisdiction of the United States Tax Court.
Mike Smitka, professor of economics at Washington and Lee University, discusses auto financing in WalletHub. Smitka answers questions on the best time of year to buy a car; whether auto financing deals may change during the next year; how to make the car-buying process more transparent and hassle-free; tips for buyers with fair or poor credit and signs that the buyer may be getting ripped off in the auto buying process.
Washington and Lee law professor Russ Miller was quoted extensively in a Christian Science Monitor report on the furor over Germany's cooperation with NSA spying operations .
Renee Pratt, assistant professor of business administration at Washington and Lee University, is part of a three-person team recently awarded a research stipend from the IBM Center for the Business of Government.
Four new law professors have joined the permanent faculty at Washington and Lee University School of year this fall.