In an article on OpinioJuris, Drumbl discusses the legacy of the Special Court for Sierra Leone and its residual function.
In an article for the Columbia Law School Blue Sky blog, Parella explores the ways in which corporate stakeholders influence corporate actors.
The article looks at current instability involving corporate shareholder voting rights, examining it through a historical lens.
Professor Mark Drumbl participated in a conference examining the legacy of the international court that prosecuted war crimes.
The article outlines the historical underpinnings of corporate cooperation, and expands upon the literature considering the structural, constitutional, and normative issues with corporate cooperation.
In an article for the ECGI blog, Haan challenges a central assumption of early 20th century corporate law.
The article takes the form of a fictional narrative evoking George Orwell's classic novel to examine flaws in the legal system.
A biotech executive made $120,000 when he bought stock options on a drug company that he did not work for. 
Woody, a corporate law scholar, and Drumbl, an expert in international law, were recognized for their outstanding scholarly work.
The article examines confidentiality agreements that operate to prevent employees from accepting new positions under threat of breach of contract.
Hasbrouck reviewed "Shielded: How the Police Became Untouchable" by Joanna Schwartz.
The article, "Delegated Corporate Voting and the Deliberative Franchise," examines a shift in the shareholder voting process that could impact wealth maximization.
Woody is among 13 new members to join the Board and will serve a three-year term.
Wilson appears at number 14 on the list as she begins her presidency of the Association of American Law Schools.
The article examines how corporations are affecting foreign policy by using economic means to reward or punish countries involved in conflict.
Several members of the W&L Law faculty will present at the annual academic conference hosted by the Association of American Law Schools.
Professor Alan Trammell published "The False Promise of Jurisdiction Stripping."
In this role, Fairfield will lead efforts within the law school to create policies, initiatives, and programing to support faculty, staff, and students as AI use grows and evolves.
Professor Sarah Haan published "Women in Shareholder Activism."
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck published "Democratizing Abolition."
Brian Murchison addressed the Roanoke chapter of the Federal Bar Association to discuss notable cases from the 2022 term.
Professor Sarah Haan was quoted extensively in a Bloomberg Law news article on a challenge brought by business groups to a new SEC disclosure rule.
Haan’s talk “The Democratization of Shareholding: Power and Passivity in American Corporate and Political Governance” will be held on Sept. 5.
Prof. Kish Parella published "International Law in the Boardroom."
Prof. Karen Woody published "Caremark's Butterfly Effect."
W&L Law is pleased to announce the following faculty joining the law school for the upcoming academic year.
W&L Law Dean Melanie Wilson has announced the annual awards that recognize faculty members for their accomplishments as teachers and scholars and for service to the school.
Prof. Josh Fairfield published "Making Virtual Things."
Beth Belmont has been named Director of Experiential Education, and Brandon Hasbrouck will lead the Frances Lewis Law Center.
Prof. Matt Boaz published "Speculative Immigration Policy."
Prof. Russ Miller published "Pandemic as Transboundary Harm: Lessons from the Trail Smelter Arbitration."
Seaman joined the Washington and Lee Law faculty in 2012.  His research and teaching interests include intellectual property, property, and election law and voting rights.
Alan Trammell will present "The False Promise of Jurisdiction Stripping," which is forthcoming in the Columbia Law Review.
Johanna Bond, Sydney and Frances Lewis Professor of Law at W&L Law, has been named as the next Dean of Rutgers Law School. Bond will assume her role at Rutgers on July 3, 2023.
Baluarte will teach in the Refugee Law Clinic and assist in the development of clinical legal education more broadly at the Iberoamericana University.
Judge Carlton Reeves of the U.S. District for the Southern District of Mississippi cited Hasbrouck's article "The Antiracist Constitution."
Ben Davis, a visiting professor at W&L Law, received the 2022 Outstanding Contribution to Diversity in ADR award from the International Institute for Conflict Prevention and Resolution (CPR).
As an international research fellow, Professor Parella will help research the role of social evaluations in business and society. 
Professor Carla Laroche published "Black Women and Voter Suppression."
Part memoir/part biography, the book tells the story of the Reverend Russ Ford, who served as the head chaplain on Virginia’s death row for eighteen years.
As a member of the NAC, Woody will review decisions rendered in FINRA disciplinary and membership proceedings.
The scholarship of Prof. Brandon Hasbrouck was downloaded nearly 13,500 times during 2022, placing him 16th on a list combining scholars from all categories of legal research.
Professors Joshua Fairfield and Kish Parella were recognized for their outstanding scholarly work.
The AALS House of Representatives voted to accept Wilson’s nomination as the 2023 President-elect. Wilson has served the AALS in numerous capacities, including membership on its Executive Committee since 2020.
Recent articles by Sarah Haan on sexism in corporate governance were featured in a commentary by New York Times business and economic columnist Peter Coy.
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck published "Reimagining Public Safety."
Prof. Brandon Hasbrouck published "Movement Constitutionalism." 
Prof. Tim MacDonnell published "Making An Offer That Can’t Be Refused: The Need For Reform In The Rules Governing Informed Consent And Doctor-Patient Agreements."
In a new role focusing on pedagogy, W&L Law professor Jill Fraley will design faculty workshops to help the law school advance science-based teaching practices that further student learning and inclusivity.
Prof. Brandon Hasbrouck published "On Lenity: What Justice Gorsuch Didn’t Say" examining the decision in Wooden v. United States.
Professor James Moliterno's recent publications include the third edition of "Global Issues in the Legal Profession."
Prof. Brian Murchison reviewed the last term term of the U.S. Supreme Court and the development of the "major questions" doctrine.
Law professor Mark Drumbl recently provided expert testimony to the drafting committee tasked with developing a protocol to the United Nations Convention to Eliminate Racial Discrimination.
Prof. Markard will contribute to the law school’s comparative law seminar, which surveys German law and legal culture.
Professor J.D. King published "Juries, Democracy, and Petty Crime."
Professor Carliss Chatman published "We Shouldn't Need Roe."
Professor Heather Kolinsky published "Storytelling, The Sound of Music, And Special Teams: Revisiting Some Basic Legal Writing Techniques With Fresh Eyes."
Prof. Alex Klein published "When Police Volunteer to Kill."
Six members of the faculty were recognized for their contributions in the classroom, to scholarship and to experiential education.
W&L Law professor Sarah Haan has been named to be the inaugural Class of 1958 Uncas and Anne McThenia Professor of Law. Her appointment is effective July 1, 2022. 
Professor David Baluarte published "Refugees Under Duress: International Law and the Serious Nonpolitical Crime Bar."
Prof. Matt Boaz published "Practical Abolition: Universal Representation as an Alternative to Immigration Detention."
Prof. Josh Fairfield published "'You Keep Using That Word': Why Privacy Doesn’t Mean What Lawyers Think."
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck Published "Movement Judges."
Prof. Chris Seaman, along with coauthor Thuan Tran '21L, published “Intellectual Property and Tabletop Games.” 
Prof. James Moliterno published "Introducing Students to Ethics and Professionalism Challenges in Virtual Communication."
Prof. Josh Fairfield published “Governing the Interface Between Natural and Formal Language in Smart Contracts.”
Prof. Kish Parella published "Contractual Stakeholderism"
Prof. Sarah Haan published "Corporate Governance and the Feminization of Capital."
Professor Brandon Hasbrouck published "The Antiracist Constitution."
Professor Jill Fraley published "Against Court Packing, or a Plea to Formally Amend the Constitution."
Ronald Davis was given 80 years in prison—an effective life sentence—for a series of armed robberies where no one was hurt and he never held a gun. 
The brief concerns the case of Dominic Ongwen, a Ugandan former child soldier and military commander, who is appealing a conviction for war crimes committed in the early 2000s.
Tax law expert Randle Pollard has joined the W&L Law faculty as the Rochelle and Thomas McN. Millhiser ‘81L Professor of Practice. 
The faculty of W&L Law are well represented at this year’s annual academic conference hosted by the Association of American Law Schools. 
Interim Dean Michelle Drumbl has announced the appointment of Michelle Cosby as Assistant Dean of Legal Information Services and Professor of Practice . Her appointment takes effect June 1, 2022.
Washington and Lee law professor Karen Woody and the students in her Insider Trading seminar have launched a podcast that will explore the arc and evolution of insider trading over the last century.
Professor Carliss Chatman published "Corporate Family Matters."
A new book from W&L Law professor Johanna Bond pulls together decades of research to address identity discrimination.
Hellwig will take a leave of absence from W&L to lead the program, which is considered the premier graduate tax program in the country.
Kolinsky, who joined W&L Law in 2021, teaches legal writing and professional responsibility.
Professor Cary Martin Shelby published "Profiting From Our Pain: Privileged Access to Social Impact Investing."
Washington and Lee University School of Law welcomes several new teachers and scholars to the faculty this year.
Professor Kish Parella was honored by the American Business Law Journal with the Hoeber Award for Excellence in Research.
The piece, based on a forthcoming article in the Stanford Law Review, is a fascinating look at the history of women shareholders.
Professor Joshua Fairfield was quoted in a column titled "Amazon wants to use radar so Alexa can watch as you sleep."
Six members of the faculty were recognized for their contributions in the classroom, to scholarship and to experiential education.
A new book by W&L Law professor Joshua Fairfield examines how the law can keep pace to govern rapid advancements in technology.
Russell Miller, J.B. Stombock Professor of Law at Washington and Lee University, is the recipient of a Humboldt Research Prize, one of Germany’s highest academic honors.
Parella will partner with Professor Rachel Lopez of Drexel School of Law and Patrick Pearsall of the firm Allen & Overy to chair the annual conference.
W&L Law Professor Carliss Chatman explored institutional history to animate the study of the Uniform Commercial Code for her students.
Alan Trammell joined W&L Law in 2020. He teaches and writes primarily in the fields of civil procedure, federal courts and conflict of laws. He is recognized as one of the leading authorities on nationwide injunctions.
Washington and Lee law professor Karen Woody has been selected for a fellowship with the Herndon Foundation aimed at preparing diverse professionals for positions on corporate boards.
How are people like companies? Prof. Carliss Chatman explains in her new children's book, "Companies are People Too."
Doug Rendleman, Robert E.R. Huntley Professor of Law Emeritus at Washington and Lee University School of Law, has been named the 2021 recipient of the Lifetime Scholarly Achievement award from the Remedies Section of the Association of American Law Schools.
The award honors a faculty member who, through activism, mentoring, teaching and scholarship, has made an extraordinary contribution to legal education, the legal system or social justice.
Baluarte’s argument centers on the ability of stateless refugees to seek asylum in the United States and involves a client he has represented for many years, a man named Miliyon Ethiopis.
Alan M. Trammell, an expert on nationwide injunctions, joins the permanent faculty. Matthew Shaw visits W&L Law as Scholar-in-Residence.
In this podcast series from the Office of Lifelong Learning, Bond dives into the world of human rights, highlighting the justice reforms achieved by nonprofits with which she works.
The June 24 hearing examined the issue of China’s legal responsibility for the global COVID-19 pandemic.