Symone Gibbs is from Smithfield, Virginia and received her undergraduate degree from Virginia Commonwealth University.
Nathan Heastie is from Nassau, The Bahamas and attended the University of Florida for his undergraduate degree.
Aya Hobeika is from Houston, Texas and attended Texas A&M for her undergraduate degree.
Adnan Kajoshi is from Tuckahoe, New York and attended New York University for his undergraduate degree.
Jasmin Oommen is from Philadelphia and attended La Salle University for her undergraduate degree.
Emilio Avila is from Laguna Niguel, California and attended San Francisco State University for his undergraduate degree..
Lindsay Lankau is from Charleston, SC and attended the University of Tennessee for her undergraduate degree.
Jack Perryman '25L is from St. Louis, Missouri. He attended Centre College for his undergraduate degree.
Before law school, Kali Venable '25L worked as a public safety reporter, and later as an investigative and environmental reporter at a daily newspaper in central south Texas.
Ali Fazal '25L is from Raleigh, North Carolina. He is a graduate of the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
Zoe Speas ’25L hails from Cumberland, VA. She graduated from the College of William and Mary in 2012 before moving to New York City to embark on a career in the theater.
Katherine Berman '25L is from Houston, Texas. She is a 2022 graduate of W&L.
Nick Payne '25L is from Louisville, Kentucky. He received his undergraduate degree from the University of Kentucky.
Marc Sendra ‘25L is originally from Orlando, FL and attended the University of Central Florida for his undergraduate degree. 
Ebony Aiken ‘25L is originally from Jackson, Mississippi and attended the University of Houston for her undergraduate degree. She also obtained a master’s in public policy from the University of Arizona. 
Before starting law school, Ebony Aiken worked in real estate and in policy research with AmeriCorps Public Allies division.
Before law school, Zoe Speas worked as a Shakespearean actor and musician across the country, eventually joining the American Shakespeare Center.
Before law school, Marc Sendra helped look after the mental and spiritual well-being of 500 soldiers as a Religious Affairs Specialist.
Before law school, Kali Venable worked as a public safety reporter, and later as an investigative and environmental reporter at a daily newspaper in central south Texas.