New Williams School construction and Elrod Commons Phase 2 renovations both remain on schedule, while the new Lindley Center for Student Wellness will break ground soon.
The state-of-the-art facility will be the new home of the Student Health Center and University Counseling Services.
Marketplace and Café 77 interior dining renovations near completion; demolition for new Williams School building underway.
University Chapel closed June 5 as renovations get underway; Marketplace and Café 77 project is on target for fall completion.
The iconic vines will receive significant pruning to ensure their overall health.
Washington and Lee’s campus is thriving thanks to the hard work and dedication of a team that collaborates with Mother Nature year-round.
Mark Fontenot serves as fire and life safety systems technician.
W&L Facilities staff work hard all year round, but during spring and summer, they put in extra time to make sure special events go off without a hitch.
W&L’s new student and faculty resource center, located within Leyburn Library, opened this fall. 
Burns, who joined W&L in 2001, had over 30 years of experience in the safety and health field. He died Sept. 19 at the age of 72.
Renovations to the John W. Elrod Commons will create spaces to expand collaborations and conversations.
The Board of Trustees approved renaming CARPE in memory of Houston H. Harte '50.
From installing hand sanitizer stations to adjusting HVAC systems, University Facilities staff have played an essential role in preparing the W&L campus for Fall Term 2020.
At W&L, sustainability starts with a seed and blossoms into sea change. Take a peek inside our gardening and composting effort to see how it's impacting our community — and the future.
By the start of the 2018-19 academic year, the 1970s-era apartments will sport a fresh exterior look and extensively remodeled interiors.
I write with the sad news that locksmith Mike Miller, of Facilities Management, died yesterday, Nov. 29.
Brand new upper-division housing and remodeled apartments at Woods Creek give juniors plenty of reasons to welcome the new school year at W&L.
“The guiding principle in developing this project has been our desire to preserve the distinctive character of the Washington and Lee community.”.