Cohen’s talk, “Music as Witness: a Composer Commemorates the Holocaust,” will be held at 4 p.m. on Feb. 13 in Hillel 101.
Terrence Johnson, professor of African American religious studies at Harvard University, will discuss his latest book on March 1.
Timothy Lubin and Anthony Edwards both presented at the event held in Berlin earlier this month.
Margaret Witkofsky '24 is researching grants for the city of Lexington, Virginia through her internship with the Office of Community-Based Learning.
Ten years after helping found the LGBTQ Resource Center at W&L, Chris Washnock ’12 has carried its community-building lessons into a career in faith-based advocacy.
The award covers full tuition and includes a $10,000 stipend toward living expenses.
Filler, an assistant professor in the Religion Department, joined the W&L faculty in fall 2020.
The university’s new religion minor requires completion of six courses and complements any major.
Bridget Bartley '21 interviews Shiri Yadlin '12, director of Just Homes, a nonprofit that helps faith communities address homelessness in D.C.
 Clifford Ando’s and Winnifred Fallers Sullivan’s lectures are free and open to the public.
Our favorite term is well underway! Here is a glimpse inside some of the many fascinating courses being taught off-campus this year.
The title of McMahon’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is “Brexit on the Border: What We Know and Don’t Know about Irish/UK Relations.”
R. Alan Winstead ’85 is a driving force for the  Meals on Wheels program in his community.
Washington and Lee recently held its biggest-ever celebration of Diwali, the Hindu festival of lights.
The panel discussion, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Who Is America?! A Response to Michael Anton’s Constitution Day Lecture.”
Erin An '19 has spent time this summer researching immunotherapy treatments for pediatric cancer at the University of Virginia.
Flower’s talk is titled “The Dancing Lares and the Serpent in the Garden: Roman Local and Household Religion.”
Jordan Goldstein's Washington and Lee journey can be followed through her love of music, her adventures on the stage — and the length of her hair. 
Over 1,200 miles of biking and hiking trails led Ralston Hartness '18 from Spain to Ireland, discovering the meaning of pilgrimage along the way.
On the 500th anniversary of the start of the Protestant Reformation, we take a closer look at a special item in the Reeves Collection — a plate that bears the image of Martin Luther.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Tiffany Ko '20 and Jiwon Kim '20 to study religion in South Korea during summer 2017.
Hannah Palmatary '18 spent the summer discovering the ancient ruins of Greece, as well as her own talent and passion for creative writing.
A Bible in the Special Collections vault turned out to be the 1642 New Testament that belonged to France’s King Louis XIII.