The team of Jack Perryman ‘25L and Jack Kellerman ‘25L won best brief and were the runners-up at the event.
The teams earned honors for best petitioner and best respondent briefs at the NBLSA conference.
Charisma Hunter ‘23L and Kobie Crosley ‘23L took first place in the competition and also took top honors with the Best Petitioner Brief award.
Kristin Barkemeyer ‘22L and Max Blumenthal ‘24L were semifinalists in the competition, and Barkemeyer was named Best Oralist.
Noriya Shahadat '21L and Tomi Akinmola '21L also won best brief and best oral advocate in their last ever moot court competition.
Matt Kaminer ’22L, Carson Cox ‘22L, and Rich Gilliland ’22L are headed to Nationals after winning the Washington D.C. Regional ABA National Appellate Advocacy Competition
The W&L Law team of of Noriya Shahadat ‘21L and Tomi Akinmola ‘21 won the award for best brief in the national Thurgood Marshall Moot Court competition, and Shahadat was named best oral advocate.
Competitors overcome format changes to gain valuable advocacy experience.
Hundreds of teams participate each year in this competition focused on a dispute between nations.
Jessiah Hulle ‘20L and Tomi Akinmola ‘21L were the runners-up in the National Thurgood Marshall Moot Court Competition, held this weekend in Cincinnati during the National Black Law Students Association conference.
3Ls Whitney Davis and Mahalia Hall were runners-up in  a regional ABA competition.
The Washington and Lee School of Law Black Law Students Association moot court and mock trial teams have advanced to nationals following top finishes at the Mid-Atlantic Black Law Students Association competitions.
The team of Angelique Rogers and Junior Ndlovu will represent W&L Law at the National Competition in Little Rock next month.
A busy fall season of intra-school moot court events concluded this week with the finals of the Mock Trial competition.
The W&L Law team of Joseph Isenberg ‘19L and Danielle Phillips ‘18L was named National Champion, and Phillips Best Oral Advocate, at the competition.
The team of Angelique Rogers and Junior Ndlovu will represent W&L Law at the National Competition in Brooklyn next month.
In addition to the team victory, law student Tamra Harris was named best oralist. The team won a $14,000 scholarship for the school.
The W&L Law team of Tejkaran Bains '17L and Caitlin Peterson '19L placed second in the NBLSA regional moot court competition, earning a spot in nationals next month in Houston.
Third year law students Max Gottlieb, Bo Mahr and Jenna Lorence will represent W&L Law at the national finals of the NYC Bar Moot Court Competition.
The W&L Law team of Thomas Griffin ‘18L and Stephen Edwards ‘18L will compete at the ABA National Negotiations Competition in February.
Washington and Lee School of Law students Max Gottlieb ‘17L, Jenna Lorence ‘17L and Bo Mahr ‘17L won the sixth annual National Energy and Sustainable Development Moot Court Competition this weekend, hosted by West Virginia University College of Law.
The Black Law Students Association mock trial team from the Washington and Lee University School of Law won the national championship this past weekend at the 2015 National Black Law Students Association Thurgood Marshall Mock Trial Competition.
David Johnson, Kyle Virtue, and Matthew Hale were awarded first place and also won the award for best brief at the first-ever moot court competition devoted exclusively to antitrust law.
For the fourth straight year, moot court and mock trial teams from W&L advanced to nationals following the Black Law Students Association Mid-Atlantic regional competition.
Part of our ongoing series of Q&As with student leaders, Moot Court Board chair Donavan Eason and vice-chairs Jimmy Pickle and Zach Wilkes talk about why moot court competitions are a big part of the W&L experience.
3L Hannah Shtein reports on the Davis competition and provides a rundown of upcoming events in the area.
U.S. Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito, along with federal appeals court judges Diarmuid O'Scannlain and Albert Diaz, will judge this year's John W. Davis Appellate Advocacy competition.
At the regional NBLSA competition, W&L Law's BLSA teams took first and second place in mock trial and first in the moot court competition.
W&L Law's moot court team advanced to the semifinals at the National Appellate Advocacy Competition held earlier this month.
A team from Washington and Lee University School of law has advanced to the finals of the National Appellate Advocacy Competition after going 5-0 in their regional competition this past weekend.
W&L teams took second and third at the regional BLSA moot court and mock trial competitions and will compete in March during the national BLSA convention in Atlanta.
The team of W.G. Beecher and Christina Randall-James won the 2013 Mediation Competition at Washington and Lee University School of Law
Kristin Slawter '14L won the 2012 Mock Trial Competition at Washington and Lee University School of Law.