A meeting with a Broadway legend allowed engineering major Zaria Daniels ’26 to take her vocal talents to Cuba.
The ensemble concludes a performance tour with its March 5 concert at the Lenfest Center.
The March 12 performance in Wilson Concert Hall will feature W&L’s University Singers, Glee Club and Cantatrici.
A global politics and economics double major, Dantini found his ‘home’ on campus with the University Singers.
The Jan. 21 performance will include selected readings and musical reflections.
The Dec. 7 lessons and carols program in the University Chapel is free and open to the public and will also be streamed online.
The performance in Wilson Concert Hall will feature W&L’s University Singers, Glee Club and Cantatrici.
Kick off the 2023-24 season with W&L’s choral ensembles on Oct. 6 at 8 p.m. and instrumental ensembles on Oct. 7 at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
The May 23 event is free and open to the public.
The ensemble concludes its global tour with its Feb. 28 concert at the Lenfest Center.
W&L’s choral conducting mentorship program helps students find and follow their passions through music and mentorship.
University Singers placed third in the festival’s International Open Competition and received the prestigious Visit Derry Award for their final performance.
Tickets are free, but required for the performance, which will take place at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall. 
The University Singers have been selected as a finalist for an International Competition in Ireland.
Join members of the W&L choral program for a Parents and Family Weekend choral concert on Sept. 30, at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
 The tour program will feature various works, from choral classics by Sebastian Bach and Josef Rheinberger to ethereal modern music on April 5.
Performance at the VMEA conference is the highest honor for a university  choir student in Virginia. This is the second time W&L has made VMEA.
The May 25 event is free and open to the public to view online.
Students and faculty in the W&L Music Department refused to let COVID-19 silence them, instead embracing creative protocols to continue making music together in person.
Jamaal Jones '16 shares how his W&L education has shaped his life.
The winner of the 16th International Choral Competition – Gallus-Maribor automatically qualifies for the European Grand Prix of Choral Singing Competition in 2022.
At W&L, Katherine Ingram '20 found a research interest—and a future profession—where environmental studies meets economics.
Final performances of "Considering Matthew Shepard" had to be canceled because of COVID-19, but the University Singers will never forget the powerful experience of telling Shepard's story.
Tickets are free, but required.
Tickets are free but required, and they are offered first to W&L parents and family.
The performance is a preview of the group’s upcoming tour of Scotland.
Morgan Luttig '14, who studied vocal performance and education at W&L, has returned as visiting instructor of music while Professor Shane Lynch is on sabbatical.
The event is free and open to the public and tickets are free, but required.
The performance is free and open to the public, and no tickets are required.
On April 15, the University Singers will give a public performance in Richmond with world-renowned composer Ēriks Ešenvalds. 
Coralie Chu '18 has always been a performer, but W&L helped her discover confidence both on and off the stage.
The program will feature a variety of works from Centuries of Psalms to modern music to traditional American folk songs.
W&L's annual Christmas Candlelight Service featuring the University Singers will be held Dec. 7, at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
Joining the Washington and Lee University Singers are the women's choir, Cantatrici, and the Men’s Glee Club.
The group was chosen to perform, along with only three other choirs from around the nation, after a highly competitive selection process.
Enjoy a home performance by the Washington and Lee University Singers as they return from their 2016 tour of the South.
The University Singers will perform the "Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols" at W&L's annual Christmas Candlelight Service.