The upcoming screening is the third installment in the DeLaney Center’s ongoing film series and will be shown at 5 p.m. on Tuesday, April 2 in Stackhouse Theater.
The second annual Philanthropy Education Week highlighted the impact donations have on the undergraduate experience.
Dennie will present her research on “Southern Black Feminisms at the Turn of the Century” March 20 in the Watson Galleries. 
Dyson Foundation endows director position at the DeLaney Center.
Cleckley will present his research on _mpathic design in the Watson Galleries on Feb. 1 at 2 p.m.
The upcoming screening is the second installment in the DeLaney Center’s ongoing film series and will be shown on Thursday, Jan. 18 at 5 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater.
The Dec. 1 symposium will address issues of Southern race relations, culture and politics.
An award of $9,500 will support the center’s Screen to Square film series.
This year’s first film, “Southern Hoops: A History of SEC Basketball,” will be shown Nov. 4 in Stackhouse Theater.
W&L Law is pleased to announce the following faculty joining the law school for the upcoming academic year.
The May 16 screening is the latest installment in the DeLaney Center’s ongoing film series.
The DeLaney Center’s latest research project connects current students with a rich legacy.
"W&L After Class" invites listeners to join conversations with W&L's expert faculty about their teaching, research and passion projects.
The new series, which launches Feb. 27, will focus on Southern race relations, culture and politics.
Terrence Johnson, professor of African American religious studies at Harvard University, will discuss his latest book on March 1.
Chantal Smith, assistant professor of economics, was selected for the one-year position to pursue research and course development.
The upcoming screening is the second installment in the DeLaney Center's ongoing film series.
Center announces new personnel, supports research opportunities and introduces programs for the campus community.
The first From Screen to Square event will take place on Monday, Nov. 7.