The voice recital will be held on April 12 at 8 p.m.
The student ensemble will be joined by the Rockbridge County High School Jazz Ensemble in their April 11 performance.
This year’s event will take the form of a conversation between Judge Luttig and Professor Brian Murchison.
The weekend’s seminar will feature Tess Gunty discussing her debut novel, “The Rabbit Hutch.”
The campus community will promote sustainability and environmental advocacy with various events throughout the month of April.
The ensemble will perform at W&L’s Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts on April 7.
The April 4 showcase is hosted by W&L’s Connolly Center for Entrepreneurship.
The April 6 gathering marks the restoration of “The Foundation” on the university’s campus, originally part of the historic Liberty Hall Academy property.
The title of her talk is “From Intersectionality to Allyship: Bridging the Gaps.”
The April 8 performance will also feature the winners of W&L’s Concerto-Aria Contest.
The senior thesis exhibition will be on view April 1-12.
W&L will celebrate the global event on April 13 in the McCarthy Gallery.
Lynch’s soprano recital will be held on April 6 at 8 p.m.
Kogan’s piano recital will be held on March 24 at 3 p.m.
Baker Amos will discuss the evolutions of ethics in communications in her March 26 lecture.
Thomas’s piano recital will be held on March 29 at 8 p.m.
Performances of the high school samurai tale run April 3-5.
The professor and pollster will discuss applied sociology methods in her March 19 talk.
Nelson will deliver a lecture on “Where Math Meets Imagination” on March 19.
The sustainable farmer’s talk will be held on March 19.
Akbar will read from his debut novel “Martyr!” at the March 14 event.
The performance will take place March 28 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center’s Wilson Concert Hall.
The art specialist’s talk will be held on March 25 at 5:30 p.m.
The iconic myth comes to life March 21-22 in Wilson Concert Hall.
“Myth, Magic, and Madness” will feature a dynamic lineup of creative workshops, dramatic readings and staged productions March 21-22.
Hart’s violin recital will be held on March 17 at 3 p.m.
The award-winning ensemble’s performances will run March 14-16.
The “Breaking Bad” actor will speak on March 14 at 7 p.m. in the University Chapel.
This year’s symposium will take place March 8-9 and address the nation’s opioid crisis and the ethical considerations it raises.
The ensemble concludes a performance tour with its March 5 concert at the Lenfest Center.
The March 12 performance in Wilson Concert Hall will feature W&L’s University Singers, Glee Club and Cantatrici.
The public reading will take place March 6 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.
This year’s event raised more than $10,000 to support the Campus Kitchen’s hunger-fighting project.
Jonathan Gingerich will deliver the keynote address at the virtual conference on Feb. 17.
Chang, an urban artist and designer, will give a lecture on Feb. 19 at 5 p.m.
The Chilean activist’s talk will be held Feb. 12 at 5 p.m.
The Feb. 10 event will include performances and a dinner.
The W&L faculty duo will perform on Feb. 18 at 3 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
Rigney’s talk will be held Feb. 5 at 5 p.m.
A reception in Lykes Atrium will follow the band’s Feb. 17 performance in Wilson Concert Hall.
The interactive exhibition will run from Feb. 13 through March 25.
This year’s Black FLEX conference theme is “Around the Clock.”
The ensemble’s Feb. 10 performance is sponsored by the university’s Concert Guild.
The Feb. 11 performance will be followed by a reception.
Topics include voting rights litigation in federal and state court, current issues in election administration, and proposed legislation to protect the right to vote.
Cleckley, assistant professor of architecture and design at the University of Virginia, will give a lecture on Feb. 1 at 5 p.m.
All proceeds from the Feb. 4 event will support the Campus Kitchen at W&L’s Backpack Program.
Martin Baron’s talk will be held on Feb. 13 and is open to the public.
Wei, a stage combat instructor, will host a workshop on Jan. 30 at 5 p.m.
The W&L community is invited to participate in the public art project, on view in Leyburn Library beginning Jan. 11.
The Jan. 24 performance will take place in the Lenfest Center’s Keller Theatre.
The Jan. 21 performance will include selected readings and musical reflections.
The Jan. 20 choral performance is sponsored by the Concert Guild.
Edelman’s talk will be held on Jan. 17 and is sponsored by the Blue Ridge Mile Clinic.
‘Salvador Dalí: Les Chants de Maldoror’ features original etchings from the surrealist and will run from Jan. 11 through Feb. 8.
The Dec. 1 symposium will address issues of Southern race relations, culture and politics.
Tsang’s talk will be held on Dec. 1 at 5 p.m.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company’s performances will run Nov. 30 through Dec. 2.
Tickets to the Dec. 4-5 performances can be obtained with a non-perishable food donation to benefit Campus Kitchen at W&L.
The Dec. 7 lessons and carols program in the University Chapel is free and open to the public and will also be streamed online.
The performance will take place Nov. 16 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center’s Wilson Concert Hall.
Kyle Friend, associate professor of chemistry and biochemistry, will discuss this year’s Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine on Nov. 8 in Leyburn Library’s Harte Center.
The ensemble will perform Nov. 11 at 7:30 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
The student ensemble will be joined by the Vosbein Magee Big Band in their Nov. 9 performance.
The community is encouraged to participate and donate to support Campus Kitchen’s programming, which kicks off Nov. 5.
Hendren, a professor at Northeastern University, will give a lecture on Nov. 9 at 5 p.m.
The solo exhibition will run from Nov. 1 through Dec. 8, 2023.
The performance will take place Nov. 6 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center’s Wilson Concert Hall.
The ensemble will perform at W&L’s Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts on Nov. 5.
Tom McClain, assistant professor of physics, will discuss this year’s Nobel Prize in Physics on Wednesday, Nov. 1.
The production runs from Nov. 1-4 in Johnson Theatre on the W&L campus.
The Oct. 28 concert is sponsored by the Pickens World Music series.
Jennifer Blumenthal-Barby, a professor at Baylor College of Medicine, will give a lecture on Oct. 26 at 5 p.m.
The Oct. 18 event is open to W&L students, faculty and staff.
Whitted’s lecture on Oct. 19, titled “All-New, All-Negro: Orrin C. Evans and the Golden Age of Comics,” is free and open to the public.
The performance in Wilson Concert Hall will feature W&L’s University Singers, Glee Club and Cantatrici.
The pianist’s Oct. 21 performance is sponsored by the Concert Guild.
George Aye, co-founder and director of innovation at Greater Good Studio, will give a lecture on Oct. 9 at 5 p.m.
The Oct. 9 performance will take place in the Lenfest Center’s Keller Theatre.
The event will bring together scholars from around the globe to consider the problem of sexual violence and examine how law can help.
The public reading will take place Oct. 3 at 6 p.m. in Northen Auditorium inside Leyburn Library.
A reception will follow the Sept. 29 performance in Keller Theatre. 
A reception in Lykes Atrium will follow the ensemble’s Sept. 23 performance in Wilson Concert Hall.
The Washington and Lee University community will commemorate the tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001, with a memorial service and the placing of 2,977 American flags on Cannan Green.
Tickets for the entire season will be available to purchase beginning Sept. 11.
The Oct. 5 event is free and open to the W&L community.
The W&L community is invited to the 2023 Convocation on the Front Lawn on Sept. 7 at 5:30 p.m.
“Ethics of Design” kicks off Sept. 21 with a keynote address by MIT Professor Danielle Wood.
The solo exhibition will run from Sept. 4 through Oct. 25 and kicks off the gallery’s fall season.
The May 23 event is free and open to the public.
The May 16 screening is the latest installment in the DeLaney Center’s ongoing film series.
The student-run production runs from May 14-16 in Johnson Theatre on the W&L campus.
Boyd’s piano recital will be held in person and via Livestream on May 17 at 7 p.m.
The faculty duo will perform at W&L’s Lenfest Center on May 14.
The public reading will take place May 1 at 7 p.m. in Northen Auditorium inside Leyburn Library.
The retired U.S. ambassador’s talk, “Russia-Ukraine: The Conflict and the Context,” will be held in Northen Auditorium on April 26.
The Honorable J. Michael Luttig ’76 will visit campus May 8-9 to reflect on his career and discuss his views on recent challenges to democracy and the rule of law.
The weekend’s seminar will feature Amor Towles discussing his latest book, “The Lincoln Highway.”
The solo exhibition will run from April 24 to May 25 in Staniar Gallery inside Washington and Lee University’s Lenfest Center for the Arts.
Supreme Court of Virginia Justice Cleo E. Powell will serve as the law school’s commencement speaker for the Class of 2023 in May.