A new themed residence brings together sophomore students with an interest in service and internationalism.
Taylor Gulotta '17 discusses the challenges and rewards of stage managing the fall 2016 Bentley Musical "The Theory of Relativity."
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Bogdan Bors '17 interns with Community Empowerment Solutions, a social entrepreneurship company focusing on microconsignment opportunities in Ecuador.
The new musical, inspired by the actual stories of the millennial generation, celebrates the connections that unite and define us. .
David Sugerman '99 combines medicine with social service, responding to crises around the world and training those on the front lines of disease control. He will give a public talk on his career in public health on Tuesday, Oct. 25, at 5:30 p.m. in Science A214. .
W&L physics professors Irina and Dan Mazilu join forces to mentor students and build a nanoscience program.
Ten years and nearly 263,000 meals after Ingrid Easton Wilson '06 founded  the Campus Kitchen at Washington and Lee, the program is still going strong.
Bonner Scholar Peyton Powers helps to plan the Fall Bonner Congress Meeting, taking place on W&L's campus Oct. 14-16.
American students traveled abroad with international students for summer projects they created together. .
Sophomores Pepe Estrada and Jason Renner participate in public policy discussions at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s Public Policy Conference in Washington, D.C.
Shepherd Intern Hannah Falchuk '18 works for the Bowery Residents' Committee in New York City.
12 exceptional students experience a unique summer program aimed at increasing retention in STEM majors.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Sonia Brozak '17 Travels to Florence to Study Art History.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Prakhar Naithani '17 conducts research at North Carolina State University's Forestry Biomaterials Department.
English major Kassie Scott '18 interns for an NGO focused on human rights and gender equality in Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
Engineering major Walker Brand '18 gets a taste of the defense industry at Hardwire Armor Systems.
Business administration and philosophy major Gordon McAlister '17 interns on the tech team at Sands Capital Management in Washington, D.C.
Co-directors of W&L Student Consulting keep their teams organized to deliver for the client.
Two first-year students take a gap year to live abroad and learn about a different culture -- and themselves.
Brand new upper-division housing and remodeled apartments at Woods Creek give juniors plenty of reasons to welcome the new school year at W&L.
With two new hotels, a half dozen new eateries, and a thriving music scene, Lexington has awakened
from her nap.
Lessons learned from W&L and the Marine Corps helped John Warren ’03 create Lima One Capital to make positive impact on neighborhoods.
Hit Show Inspires Spring Term Course on the Politics of Race and Gender.
Physics-engineering and computer science major Aswasan Joshi '17 interns in product development at Jobscience in San Francisco.
New student-sourced sustainability initiatives get the green light on campus.
An International Student Perspective .
Studying and Teaching the Japanese Way of Tea.
Kiki Martire is an English major with a minor in women's and gender studies from Baltimore, Md. A member of the Class of 2015, she traveled abroad to the South Pacific during her junior year.
"In my four years here, most of my 'classrooms' were not in a classroom."
"It allowed me to branch outside my comfort zone and really see the world from a different angle."
Eric Schwen '15 in  Paris, Madrid and London.
University College, London.
Fort Dauphin, Madagascar.
Myrna Barrera-Torres '15 in Vina del Mar, Chile, and Rome, Italy.
"Faculty and staff have supported me in my pursuit of fostering a greater global perspective to bring back to Lexington."
"W&L has allowed me to satisfy my need to wander."
.
"Being abroad for so long really changed my perspective on many aspects of W&L, and made me appreciate it so much more."
"Good and bad things will happen when you take risks and leave what's comfortable, but I promise it's worth it."
.
Economics professor returns to childhood home of Papua New Guinea to study the economics of resource-rich developing countries.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Franklin Wolfe '16 Travels to Europe to Gather Data for 3D Geologic Models.
John Gunn Scholar discusses her experience at Washington and Lee.
Computer Science major Rajwol Joshi discusses his experiences at W&L.
"The one thing that will set you apart and help define you is how you cope with the challenges you face, learn from them and move on."
Connor Chess '17 spends a summer studying, working and teaching in Costa Rica, thanks to a Wooley Fellowship.
Recipients of W&L's Certificate of International Immersion reflect on their experiences abroad.
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Sara Jones '18 Travels to India to Study Maternal and Child Health.
Washington and Lee Dedicates the Center for Global Learning.
Washington and Lee's Outing Club travels to Nepal for eight-day Khumbu trek.
Sage Timberline is a biochemistry major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Richmond, Va. A member of the Class of 2015, she interned at the Downtown Health Plaza in Winston-Salem, N.C.
Janey Fugate is a journalism and Romance languages major from Atlanta, Ga. She spent a summer interning as a reporter for El Nuevo Herald, the Spanish language newspaper in Miami.
Studio art major Leigh Stauffer '16 works as a membership and development intern at The High Museum of Art in Atlanta.
Shepherd Intern at Bridges, St. Paul's School in Baltimore.
The W&L community will gather tonight at 6:45 p.m. in Evans Hall in remembrance of last year's tragic accident.
Emma Busse is a sociology and economics major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Charleston, W.Va. A member of the Class of 2015, she spent a summer in Camden, N.J., as a Shepherd Intern with the Cooper's Ferry Partnership, development firm that uses a multi-faceted approach to make Camden a better place to live, work, and invest.
A Q&A with Volunteer Firefighter Steven Vranian '15.
Emmanuel Abebrese is a biochemistry major with a minor in poverty and human capability studies from Woodbridge, Va. A member of the Class of 2015, he is a member of the Student Association for International Learning, the African Students Association and the Beta Beta Beta biology honor society. He is also the founder of Citadel Foundation for Kids, a nonprofit organization in Ghana and the U.S. that provides children with mentors, resources and training to prepare them for future global leadership and focuses on alleviating child poverty worldwide.
"W&L is a community that truly enables and encourages students to step outside of their comfort zones."
Kiki Martire '15 studies challenges to women in political leadership in Samoa.
Nicole Gunawansa ’14 is passionate about delivering health care to marginalized patients.
Stuart Hogue '96 believes in the power of girls to end global poverty.
"The relationships I have made and strengthened while volunteering over the course of my time in Lexington are more important to me than I could have imagined."
Johnson Opportunity Grant Winner Kayla Sylvester '17 Volunteers with a Local Literacy Council in South Dakota.
W&L Psychology professor Tyler Lorig reports from his AAAS fellowship on Capitol Hill.
Politics and Spanish major Noelle Rutland '17 interns for the Department of Defense.
Kristine Kilanski ’07 looked at the "invisible" side of Austin through the eyes of another to contribute to a book about inequality in the city.
Psychology major Darby Lundquist '17 interns at Eastern Virginia Medical School.
After majoring in biochemistry, religion and music composition at W&L, Thomas Day took his skills to help people at their most vulnerable point in life. .
Author and Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Carl Bernstein will deliver the keynote address for the 15th annual Institute for Honor Symposium on Friday at 4:00 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
Cynthia Cheatham '07 finds purpose in a variety of settings as she advocates for underrepresented communities.
Biology and Spanish major Harrison Westgarth '17 researches a rare congenital disease at the National Institutes of Health.
"W&L is about the people who make the traditions and community succeed."
Angela Smith sits down with award-winning journalist Roger Mudd '50 to discuss the Mudd Center for Ethics.
Margaret McClintock is an English major with a minor in art history from Tunica, Miss. A member of the Class of 2015, she has been president of the Panhellenic Council, and Appalachian Adventure Trip leader, a member of the Contact Committee, the Student Faculty Hearing Board, the Student Affairs Committee and Traveller.
Austin Eisenhofer is a business administration major and captain of the varsity football team. A lifelong racing fan, he spent the summer working for Penske Racing, Inc. as an athletics and team management intern.
David Robinson is an accounting and business administration major from Greenville, S.C. A member of the Class of 2015, he is chairman of the Student Judicial Council, a resident advisor for first-year students, a local elementary school volunteer and a member of @wluLex, W&L's student-run social media team.
Laurent Boetsch Term Associate Professor of Sociology.
Lucy Wade Shapiro is an American history major from Memphis, TN. A member of the Class of 2015, she is president of the student-run Executive Committee, a peer counselor, a volunteer at the Rockbridge Area Health Center and a member of Tri Beta, WITS and Reformed University Fellowship.
New business law professor hopes to teach students to be better negotiators.
Associate Professor of History.
Bailey Russell is a studio art (photography) major from Huntsville, Alabama. A member of the Class of 2016, she is co-chair of the LEAD Banquet Planning Committe, a DJ at WLUR, a peer tutor and a member of Reformed University Fellowship and KLAZICS hip-hop dance group. .
Professor of Business Journalism .
"A large part of my personal growth has stemmed from my involvement with W&L athletics."
Director of International Education .
Patrick O'Connor is a business administration major with a minor in education policy from Richmond, Va. A member of the Class of 2015, he is a member of the varsity basketball team, a first-year resident advisor and a Burish intern.
"We often do not realize the opportunities afforded to us as students at this prestigious university tucked away in such a beautiful town."
Seniors Teddy Corcoran and Stephanie Foster get students from around the country talking about ethics.
Accounting and Business Administration major lends her planning skills to the annual Souper Bowl benefit for the Campus Kitchen Backpack Program.
John X. Miller '77, managing editor of Winston-Salem Journal, adds his name to the city's list of 'firsts.'
Lenfest Center House Directors work behind the scenes to keep performances running smoothly.
"I have been challenged to step outside my comfort zone, encouraged to pursue my passions, and nurtured as a student, a leader and an individual."
"I've learned a diverse set of capabilities that has aided my transformation from a curious girl with a knack for business into a cognizant, concerned businesswoman aware of the challenges of this complex world."
Rising senior Steven Yeung was one of the youngest members of the Virginia delegation — and one of the youngest delegates nationwide — at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia.
"All around me, I was exposed to ideas and opinions I had not considered before."
For Bert Ponder '83, of Atlanta, and his daughter, Wyn '16, volunteering for the Annual Fund has become a family tradition. Bert serves as the chair of the Annual Fund, while Wyn is one of five lead class agents for the Class of 2016. .
ODK National Leader of the Year Paqui Toscano talks about his approach to leadership.
Buddy LeTourneau '71 has served Washington and Lee as a class agent since 1996. Even after 21 years of volunteering for the Annual Fund, he is still motivated by what he terms the "passion and love" he feels for the university. .
Advertising Operations and Ad Research Intern at Hulu.
Modern Professional Presentations is Not Your Average Public Speaking Class.