Rachel Hubbard is the Communication and Marketing Coordinator and has worked at W&L Law since February 2017.
Joshua Fairfield is the William Bain Family Professor of Law and the Director of AI Legal Innovation Strategy at W&L Law School. 
Emma Martone is the Administrative Assistant for the Law Library and Law Center.
Karen Woody has been a professor of law at W&L since July 2019.
Terri Byrnes is an Academic Administrative Assistant II with the Law School.
Anna Fernandez is the Assistant Director of Community and Recruitment for Law Student Affairs.
Maureen Edobor ‘17L is an Assistant Professor of Law and DeLaney Center Fellow. 
Elizabeth Outland Branner currently serves as the Senior Advisor of Law School Advancement.
Brian Murchison, Charles S. Rowe Professor of Law, has been on the law faculty since 1982.
Suzanne Wade is the Assistant Director for Employer and Alumni Outreach for the Office of Career Strategy and Law Advancement.
Michelle Cosby is the Assistant Dean of Legal Information Services and Professor of Practice. 
Leila Lawlor is Director of the new Academic Excellence Program and a Professor of Practice.
Catlin Meade is a professor of practice who has been teaching legal writing since 2022. 
Kristy Speers is the Senior Recruitment Coordinator at W&L Law.
Alexi Pfeffer-Gillett joined W&L Law this fall as an assistant professor. 
Christina Querrard is a custodian at Washington and Lee and works in Sydney Lewis Hall. 
Ashley Evans joined W&L Law in November 2022 as the Head of Collection Services for the Law Library.
Erica Ingersoll is an Executive Assistant in the Dean’s Office of the Law School.
Matt Boaz is acting director of the Immigrant Rights Clinic and a Professor of Practice.
Jane Pultz is the Dining Shift Supervisor for the Brief Stop located in the law school.
Jon Shapiro is a Professor of Practice who has taught at W&L for 13 years. 
Sarah Cravens is a Visiting Professor of Law, who joined the law school as of June 2023. 
Florentina Butler is the Associate Director of Law School Advancement.
Jenny Mitchell is the Archivist and Special Collections Librarian in the School of Law.
Sheryl Salm is a senior legal assistant for the Black Lung and Criminal Justice Clinics.
Wendy Rice is the Sr. Administrative Assistant (Team Lead) for Faculty Services in the School of Law.
Russell Miller is the J.B. Stombock Professor of Law at W&L Law where his research and teaching focus on public law and comparative law.
Allison Wexler Weiss teaches legal writing and prison law.
Gwen Marshall is the Assistant Director of Law Admissions.
Milea Webb is a Library Assistant and the Circulation Lead in the Law Library.
Dave Pfaff, academic technologist in the IQ Center at W&L, enjoys the fact that his job exposes him to interesting lessons in a variety of subjects.
Meet our new dining services director, Jen Hickey, who loves the Philadelphia Eagles, going for long drives with her husband, and her job at W&L.
Jeremy Franklin has spent his life after college invested in his passion for music as the general manager of WLUR, W&L’s campus radio station.
Meet our digital content strategist, who loves random foods, random facts and random cats.
Meet Suzanne Gardner, assistant director of annual giving at W&L
Helen MacDermott, office manager for the Center for Global Learning, is an avid runner and mother of two who would rather have coffee with her mom than any celebrity on earth.
"I have been [at W&L] for fifteen years and I have always been treated with respect and kindness by everyone. That has made me very loyal to this institution and the people here."