Arthur Vorbrodt is a senior counsel in the Transactions Practice Group at Foley & Lardner in Dallas.
Noriya Shahadat is an associate in the Environmental and Mass Tort litigation group at McGuireWoods.
Last year, Butler became the first Black judge in Virginia’s 24th District.
Following a clerkship and working as a prosecutor, Gretchen Panchik now practices in the areas of commercial litigation and insurance recovery.
Following his service in the JAG Corps, Christian Addison opened ASE Representation, a full-service sports and entertainment agency.
Patrick Bolling is a principal at Woods Rogers, advising a variety of employers in traditional labor and employment.
Lauren Griffin is an associate at Alston & Bird LLP, working in the Intellectual Property Litigation group based in the Charlotte, North Carolina office.
Lauren Shelby ’23 will be pursuing her master’s degree at New York University.
Andrew Tartakovsky ’23 received a Fulbright grant to teach English in Azerbaijan.
Charlotte Dross ’23 is working in public relations as a postgraduate intern at Jackson Spalding.
Sadie Charles Calame ’23 is working as a construction lead for Teton Habitat for Humanity.
Following his entrepreneurial passions, John Henry gets comfort from his discomfort.
Harris Hubbard ’23 will attend graduate school at Rutgers University Business School before joining Wells Fargo as an investment banking analyst.
Jessica Tracy is General Counsel at video hosting, sharing, and services platform provider Vimeo.
Tahri Phillips ’23 will be pursuing a master’s degree at the University of Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar.
Virginia’s, and perhaps the nation’s, oldest practicing lawyer.
Negin Farahmand Wood is Senior Assistant Public Defender at Office of the Public Defender for Fairfax County.
Caroline Wise ’23 is working as a backcountry guide for St. Elias Alpine Guides in Alaska.
Allie Stankewich ’23 will spend the summer in Tanzania before pursuing a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship in Uganda.
Ryan Redd is an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Lubbock Division of the Northern District of Texas.
Blake Sanchez ’23 is working as a management consultant in the Public Health Segment at Guidehouse in Washington, D.C.
Ellie Penner ’23 received a Boren Scholarship to study Hindi in India.
Gabby Emge ’23 will be pursuing her J.D. at Harvard Law School.
W&L’s campus culture — from small classes to the Speaking Tradition — gave Lemon the communication skills and confidence to succeed.
Weaver’s advice for current students: Take advantage of every opportunity and embrace respectful debate.
For Tilbor, W&L instilled a healthy curiosity and a lifelong love of learning.
Young learned the critical skills to excel at her job from the veteran journalists in Reid Hall.
Haydon credits the W&L community for inspiring him and guiding him toward success.
Josh Keruski ‘21L and Ainsley-Brooke Satterwhite ‘22L are both stationed at Fort Novosel in Alabama as members of the U.S. Army JAG Corps. 
Barrow’s experience at W&L gave him the confidence to work through any challenge or opportunity.
Sutherland's advice for current students: "Don’t take yourself too seriously!"
Ben Richie works for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in the Division of Corporation Finance’s Disclosure Review Program.
Whether it was inside the classroom or out and about on campus, Rebecca Dunn Piatt '16 looks back on her time at W&L fondly. 
Junior and Natey Kinzounza, who met at W&L Law, are both trial attorneys who honed their skills in moot court and summer externships.
Lisa Hedrick, partner and chair of the M&A and Finance practice group at the firm Hirschler Fleischer, has been recognized for her work in the field.
Scott's advice for current students: "There is no one way to do college. Do it your way and make it count."
The scholarship provides young scholars with an immersive experience in Asia through which they can learn to "be comfortable being uncomfortable." 
Mugo says that, above all, W&L taught her to "always be curious."
Janssen Evelyn ’06L uses resilience and intentional joy to find his purpose.
After a successful career in big law, Michael Cohen ’90L returns to his passions of poetry and painting.
Lozinskaya, a 2022 graduate, will receive a master’s degree in global affairs from Tsinghua University in China.
Buff will serve as the Housing Justice Fellow with Community Legal Services of Prince George’s County, Maryland.
Andrea Levan '22 is a paralegal specialist in the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice in Washington, D.C. 
Kristen Xu ’22 worked diligently during her time at W&L to accomplish her dream of working with a beauty company after graduation. Currently, she is a global marketing coordinator at NARS Cosmetics in New York.
Paul Schlimm ’87, who retired from the Army as a colonel in 2016, credits W&L with preparing him for command, beginning his 27-year career as an officer.
After his start as a prosecutor, Dan Collopy ’81L found his way into intellectual property law, and a career in Asia.
The latest turn in the winding career path of Christopher Riano ’10L finds him leading a national effort to improve civic education and engagement.
Oyumaa Daichinkhuu ’16 will complete a one-year master’s program at China’s Tsinghua University inspired by the Rhodes Scholarship program at the University of Oxford in England.
With podcasts that look inward and outward, the Younis brothers amplify their perspective as global citizens.
As an executive at the Department of Veterans Affairs and the United Services Organization, Navy veteran Ned Powell ’70 impacted the lives of many service members before retiring.
As vice president and chief compliance officer for a pharmaceutical company, Tina Beamon uses her legal background to promote the greater good.
Shelley Adams Gentle '99 has organized a Go Fund Me campaign to help feed children in her community.
After hearing about job loss following the Coronavirus outbreak, Eric Chaffin knew he wanted to do something to help.
The Rhodes Scholarship, which averages $70,000 per year and up to as much as $250,000, fully funds two to four years of study at the University of Oxford in England.
Lewis Perkins '93, the self-described “liberal arts kid” who received the Distinguished Alumnus Award at his 25th reunion in April, nurtured his creative spirit at W&L. Now he brings that spirit to a nonprofit that encourages sustainability. 
Ron Ginder '75 isn't one of Santa's elves; he's a thoughtful alumnus who makes 800 wooden toys each year for Rockbridge-area children. 
Max Adler ’04, editorial director at Golf Digest magazine, used golf and art to facilitate the release of a wrongfully convicted man.
Her latest novel, "The Great Believers," was a finalist for the National Book Award in fiction and was one of three finalists for the Pulitzer Prize in fiction.
As a senior ecologist with Trihydro Corp., Jana Heisler White '98 works on environmental protection and remediation.
Caroline Schmidt '13 volunteered for the Red Cross during 2017's horrific hurricane season.
Gonz Ferrero ’04 and Lenny Enkhbold ’17 blend their shared concern for the environment with a dash of business savvy to promote eco-friendly outdoor wear. 
For award-winning San Francisco architect Olle Lundberg ’75, sustainability is no trend — it is intrinsic to his profession.
Mary Celeste Beall ’99 combines traditions of Southern hospitality with locally sourced foods.
Tolu Olubunmi ’02 speaks up for immigrants and refugees.
In a recent visit to campus, Alisha Laventure ’09, a television news anchor in Dallas, told journalism students about how a national story became personal. 
George served in the Texas state house from 1999 to 2003.
Bob Chandler ’92 charted his own course as entrepreneur co-owner of omni-channel retailer Tactics