In an article on OpinioJuris, Drumbl discusses the legacy of the Special Court for Sierra Leone and its residual function.
Professor Mark Drumbl participated in a conference examining the legacy of the international court that prosecuted war crimes.
Woody, a corporate law scholar, and Drumbl, an expert in international law, were recognized for their outstanding scholarly work.
The April conference explored children ensnared in violent situations, including armed conflict and liberation struggles.
The conference will be held via Zoom on February 16 from 10:00 am to 12:00 pm EST. 
Law professor Mark Drumbl recently provided expert testimony to the drafting committee tasked with developing a protocol to the United Nations Convention to Eliminate Racial Discrimination.
Prof. Mark Drumbl was interviewed on NPR’s All Things Considered to discuss the whether Russia's assaults on Ukraine constitute war crimes.
Law professor Mark Drumbl and Scholar-in-Residence Barbora Hola are working on a book that explores why people inform on others under authoritarian regimes.
The brief concerns the case of Dominic Ongwen, a Ugandan former child soldier and military commander, who is appealing a conviction for war crimes committed in the early 2000s.
The two-part blog interview covered a wide range of topics, including child soldiers and ecocide.
Prof. Mark Drumbl commented in the Washington Post on a new U.S. anti-doping law that could have consequences for sporting events around the globe.
Should criminal legislation put in place to fight terrorism be used to fight the virus?
Contributors to a recent book on child soldiers will participate in a panel discussion on Feb. 4 at 10:00 a.m. at the Law School.
Law professor Mark Drumbl discussed why bombing cultural sites is considered a war crime.
Aljazeera relied on the expertise of Mark Drumbl for "explainers" on war crimes and genocide.
The Law, Justice, and Society Program offers an interdisciplinary approach to legal studies that draws from faculty and resources in all three schools at Washington and Lee University.
The Research Handbook on Child Soldiers brings to bear a unique array of perspectives to unpack the life-cycle of youth and militarization—from recruitment, to demobilization, and return to civilian life.
The spring term class asks: What possibilities does law offer after massive political violence has occurred, and what are the limits of law after massive political violence?