New Williams School construction and Elrod Commons Phase 2 renovations both remain on schedule, while the new Lindley Center for Student Wellness will break ground soon.
The April 4 showcase is hosted by W&L’s Connolly Center for Entrepreneurship.
Bright Frimpong and Keri Larson teamed with two others to produce a paper on crowdfunding that was featured in the Journal of Business Venturing Insights.
The professor of accounting will receive the 2023 Accounting Historians Journal Award at the organization’s annual meeting in August. 
Frederick will serve as co-presenter for a session that demonstrates the beneficial uses of technology in the curriculum mapping process.
“W&L After Class,” now entering its fifth season, invites listeners to join conversations with W&L’s expert faculty about their teaching, research and passion projects.
The current director of the Center for Teaching and Learning at Quinnipiac University will begin his new role effective June 1.
Grajzl’s talk “An Economist’s Walk Through English Legal and Cultural History” will be held on Jan. 25 in Northen Auditorium.
Politics professor Clyde Wang offers perspective on government intervention to combat declining birth rates in China.
Students in the Williams School consulted on a number of projects including marketing, research and social media strategy for businesses and organizations.
Kaplan’s talk “Between Empire and Anarchy from the Mediterranean to China” will be held Nov. 8.
The Williams School and Department of Economics provided the opportunity for students to network and explore careers in the field of economics.
Art Goldsmith will deliver the fall lecture for the Richmond Association of Business Economics and the Virginia Association of Economists on Oct. 27.
Megan Hess collected the award at the AAA Annual Meeting in August.
Professor Jay Margalus co-authored pieces featured in bioRxiv and for the International Symposium on Academic Makerspaces. 
A total of 20 new faculty are joining the university this year.
A total of 25 new instructors join the W&L community.
Denny Garvis and Zoila Ponce de León presented a two-day online workshop on applying adaptive and interactive learning practices in undergraduate statistics courses.
This summer, Washington and Lee students experienced life in London as part of an immersive program offered through the Williams School.
Pooja Thakur-Wernz presented her paper at the Academy of International Business Conference in Warsaw, Poland on July 9.
Megan Hess offers perspective on the importance of determining the scope of inventory shrinkage.
Linda Hooks’ comments were featured regarding the stubborn phase of inflation cooling.
Misty Snider serves as the executive assistant of the Williams School.
Niels-Hugo Blunch was selected for the post at the organization’s annual meeting last month.
A new Williams School facility and renovations to University Chapel and Sydney Lewis Hall among several projects on the horizon.
Scott Holcomb ’23 and Josh Fingerhut ’24 claimed a $2,500 prize for their pitch on Diamondback Energy.
The professor of business administration shared his thoughts on ChatGPT and what AI means for higher education.
John W. Schindler will serve a five-year renewable contract with the organization that promotes international financial stability.
Professors Emily Landry and Jim Casey both spoke at the workshop held in Havana.
This fall, Washington and Lee Student Consulting tackled a new project for a local business with a sustainability focus.
Combined, the College, the Williams School and the Law School have hired 23 Faculty Members.
Diwesh Kumar ’24 is developing investment banking expertise at his summer internship at Boxwood Partners in Richmond, Virginia. 
Davies work looks at the setting of exchange rates in resource-rich developing countries.
Andi Coulter joined the Business Administration department as a visiting assistant professor in fall 2021.
The study showed that highly attractive job-seekers tend to feel more powerful than other candidates, but one simple exercise can level the playing field.
Camilo Alvarez joined Washington and Lee University as the Ted DeLaney Postdoctoral Fellow in Economics in fall 2021.
Assistant Professor Chantal Smith joined the Economics Department in fall 2021.
Victor Ricciardi, visiting professor of finance at Washington and Lee University, was recently interviewed for MoneyGeek.
Washington and Lee University will name a new interdisciplinary academic center for teaching and research on Southern race relations, culture, and politics in honor of late professor of history emeritus Theodore “Ted” Carter DeLaney Jr. '85.
Professor Stephan Fafatas was recently awarded the 2021 Alfred R. Roberts Memorial Research Award, presented by the Academy of Accounting Historians.
Professor Victor Ricciardi discussed a new category in the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standard
In 2020, Julie Youngman introduced significant programmatic and curricular development in W&L’s new interdisciplinary program on Law, Justice and Society.
“A Social Theory of Congress: Legislative Norms in the Twenty-First Century” is the newest book on the topic of the U.S. Congress in more than 15 years.
Kevin Batteh '95, '98L is W&L's first Bitcoin donor.
From serving on his 10th reunion committee to establishing a scholarship, Yuan Liu '11 proves that W&L ties span continents.
In a WalletHub piece, Scott Hoover, Washington and Lee University’s A. Stevens Miles Professor of Banking and Finance, answers questions about secured credit cards.
Twelve students at W&L are creating their own version of the U.S. Constitution in Professor Lynn Uzzell’s politics course.
Ricciardi served as an expert panelist on behavioral finance and retirement planning for the podcast "That Annuity Show" earlier this year.
Professor Thakur-Wernz published a paper in the International Journal of Emerging Markets.
Professor Strong’s op-ed is titled “Donald Trump and the Stress Test of American Democracy.”
Assistant Professor Lloyd Tanlu’s article is titled “Causal Language and Effective Performance Evaluations.”
Earlier this month, economics professor Peter Grajzl gave an online presentation for the University of Oxford titled "A machine-learning history of English case law and legal ideas before the Industrial Revolution."
Strong co-authored an article in The Conversation titled “America’s newest voters look back at the 2020 election – and forward to politics in 2021.”
Victor Ricciardi, visiting professor of finance at Washington and Lee University, shared his financial expertise and insight in two recent interviews.
Sundie teaches marketing courses at W&L, including Marketing Management. 
Brian Alexander recently contributed to the Monticello blog, where he discussed Thomas Jefferson’s “Manual of Parliamentary Practice” and the impact it has on modern rules of the U.S. Congress.
W&L Professor of Economics Hugo Blunch published an article with the IZA Institute of Labor Economics.
Ponce de León is an assistant professor of politics at Washington and Lee University.
This year, 222 people tuned in to watch and participate in the annual summit. 
Victor Ricciardi, visiting professor of finance at Washington and Lee University, recently appeared on “The Rational Reminder Podcast.”
Rush published op-eds in the Richmond Times-Dispatch and The Fulcrum in September.
Zhang teaches Statistics for Economics and Introduction to Economics, and she is interested in developing courses on the economics of climate change, migration and gender.
The Entrepreneurship Summit will take place online on Friday and Saturday, Oct. 2–3.
Blunch served as the lead consultant on a Ghana case study for the World Bank's new index
Morel’s recent interview was included in “The 1619 Project Exposed: A Special Edition of the American Mind Podcast.”
Gavin Fox answers questions about the value of grocery credit card programs.
Art Goldsmith was featured on the Morning Brew podcast “Business Casual”
This summer, Sezen will receive two months of intensive training with leading faculty at Michigan State University in microeconomics, math, econometrics and research methods.
Strong spoke on President Jimmy Carter’s pre-White House days and his complicated relations with the civil rights movement in Georgia.
The article highlights Latin American stories to look out for in 2020.
Brian Alexander has been awarded a domestic fellowship at the International Center for Jefferson Studies (ICJS) at Monticello.
Morel’s piece is titled “America Wasn’t Founded on White Supremacy: A Rebuttal to the ‘1619 Project.’”
The title of Schatten’s article is “Prison: Where Undergrads and Inmates Take Classes Together.”
Attendees will discover the technology, insights and trends shaping the future of data and analytics.
Kahn has been invited to give the opening keynote speech at the Exposition of Sustainability of the Industrial Pole of Manaus.
In the article, Lind discusses the unique education students receive at W&L.
 The article presents an analysis of the main political events of 2018 in Peru.
The Conversation recently published an article written by Mark Rush titled “The Electoral College will never make everyone happy.”
 Papers included in the journal focus on a range of topics that speak to various disciplines.
Campbell's talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled "The Giants of Africa: What's Next for South Africa and Nigeria?"
The episode aired on “The Great Books” podcast series.
As a recipient of this award, Gilbert was recognized at the 2019 SIOP Annual Conference at the National Harbor in Fort Washington, Maryland, in April.
In the discussion, Morel explains the history behind the Lincoln-Douglas debates.
n the podcast, Schatten and Dudley discuss organizational culture and values.
Strong’s talk is titled “George Washington and Education.”
Davies was recently interviewed on ABC Radio Australia about his current research.
The article is a part of his forthcoming book, “A Social Theory of Congress: Legislative Norms in the Twenty-First Century.”
The article is titled “The Changing Shapes of Latin American Welfare States."
As a candidate on the Fulbright Specialist Roster, Rush is now eligible to be matched with projects designed by host institutions in over 150 countries globally.
Blunch will visit the Economics Department in the Business School of Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul.
While at Washington and Lee, Lencioni has taken several German classes and studied abroad in Berlin.
Jeff Schatten, assistant professor of business administration at Washington and Lee University, said he launched the podcast in part because of student input.
Yeboah's talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Africa Economic Transformation: The Role of Youth.”
Mark Rush's piece was published Feb. 13 in the Richmond Times-Dispatch.