Brian Murchison, Charles S. Rowe Professor of Law, has been on the law faculty since 1982.
Washington and Lee University School of Law will host the 2023 Law and Literature Seminar on Oct. 27-28. 
Brian Murchison addressed the Roanoke chapter of the Federal Bar Association to discuss notable cases from the 2022 term.
W&L Law Dean Melanie Wilson has announced the annual awards that recognize faculty members for their accomplishments as teachers and scholars and for service to the school.
Prof. Brian Murchison reviewed the last term term of the U.S. Supreme Court and the development of the "major questions" doctrine.
Assistant Professor Erin Taylor and Dr. Ralph Caldroney’s public discussion, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Ethical Issues in the Context of Covid-19."
Dr. Jonathan Wortham '04 is the outbreak investigations team leader in the Division of Tuberculosis Elimination at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Slaughter's lecture, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Renewing the Promise of America: Looking Back to Move Forward."
Rice's lecture, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Cultural Norms and the Export of the W&L Honor System."
The conference is titled Ethics and Technology: Surveillance, Civil Rights, and Cyber-Security.
Franklin Foer, a national correspondent for The Atlantic and a fellow at the New American Foundation, will give a public lecture at W&L.
Eubanks' talk is titled "The Shakedown State: Digital Debt, Economic Inequality and Automation in Public Services."
Nissenbaum's talk, which is free, is titled "Privacy as Contextual Integrity: Thwarting the Great Regulatory Dodge."
Arkin is a roboticist and roboethicist.
Smith’s talk is titled “An Ethical Framework for a God-Like Intellect.”
The talk is free and open to the public.
Johnston’s talk is titled “The Good Parent in an Age of Gene Editing: How Novel Genetic Technologies Challenge Parental Responsibility.” 
The A. Paul Knight Internship Program in Conservation, named in memory of a late Washington and Lee student, turns 30 this year. It has provided internships to 132 students and is still going strong.