Four W&L faculty will talk about their experiences with Open Access publishing, both from the editorial and authorial perspectives, on Oct. 24 from 4:30–5:30 p.m.
Seth C. Lewis, the Shirley Papé Chair in Electronic Media in the School of Journalism and Communications at the University of Oregon, will give a talk on “Journalists, Audiences…and Bots?! New Ways of Thinking about What’s Happening with News” on Oct. 21 at 4:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
Gordon Ball, visiting associate professor of English at Washington and Lee, says Bob Dylan's Nobel recognition is "vindication" after Ball nominated the singer-songwriter for the award 15 years in a row.
Now in its 24th year, the seminar on Oct. 14-15 will focus on the Shakespeare classic “King Lear.”
Jeffrey P. Shay, Rupert A. Johnson, Jr. Professor of Entrepreneurship and Leadership at Washington and Lee University, has been named a fellow of the North American Case Research Association (NACRA).
MK Asante, bestselling author, award-winning filmmaker, rapper and professor, will give the Oct. 15 keynote address for the annual Bonner Congress, held this year at Washington and Lee University. The lecture will be at 9 a.m. in Stackhouse Theater and is free and open to the public.
Aly Colón, Knight Professor of Ethics in Journalism at Washington and Lee University, recently shared his expertise in an Associate Press story titled, "Experts: No Clear Criminal Case Over Trump Tax Disclosure."
In an essay recently featured on Paint This Desert, Andrea Lepage, associate professor of art at Washington and Lee University, shares her thoughts on artist Vincent Valdez.
George D. “Geordy&rdquo; Johnson III, CEO of Johnson Development Associates Inc., Spartanburg, South Carolina, joined the Washington and Lee University Board of Trustees on Oct. 7, 2016. Johnson, a 2005 graduate of W&L, also holds an M.B.A. from UNC&rsquo;s Kenan-Flagler Business School. During graduate school, Johnson interned with BlackRock on its securitized assets investments team. [&hellip;]
Dr. Gregory Kulacki, the China project manager and senior analyst in the Global Security Program of the Union of Concerned Scientists, will lecture at Washington and Lee on Oct. 10 at 5 p.m. in Elrod Commons 345. The title of the talk, which is free and open to the public, is “The Risk of Nuclear War between the United States and China.”
The Lara D. Gass Symposium will focus this year on corporate law and governance, honoring the scholarship of two of the law school’s longest-serving faculty members, Lyman Johnson and David Millon.
Philip Kitcher, the John Dewey Professor of Philosophy at Columbia University, will give a Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar lecture at Washington and Lee University on Oct. 27 at 5 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library. The title of the lecture is “The Case for Secular Humanism.”
Diana Henriques, an award-winning financial journalist and author, will give a talk at Washington and Lee on Oct. 27 at 5 p.m. in the Stackhouse Theater of Elrod Commons. The title of her speech is “The Timeless Lessons of the Bernie Madoff Scandal.”
Steve Bragaw, visiting professor of politics at Washington and Lee, was interviewed on VA Talk Radio's "Mari and Brian in the Morning" about what to expect from the first presidential debate between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.
Seth Cantey, assistant professor of politics at Washington and Lee, was interviewed on VA Talk Radio's "The Weekend Show With Pattie Martin" on the 2016 presidential election.
Lara Farina, an associate professor of English at West Virginia University, will give a lecture at Washington and Lee University on Oct. 27 at 12:15–1:15 p.m. in Hillel House Multipurpose Room 101.
The Departments of Journalism and Mass Communications and Politics at Washington and Lee University will host a mayoral debate on Oct. 11 at 7:30 p.m. in the Millhiser Moot Court Room of Lewis Hall, W&L’s Law School. Doors will open at 6:30 p.m.
Sherry Fox, an attorney with ThompsonMcMullan, has been named to the 2016 class of Leaders in the Law by Virginia Lawyers Weekly.
Lee Chapel and Museum presents “Remembering Robert E. Lee” with a speech by J. Holt Merchant ’61, professor of history emeritus, at Washington and Lee University on Oct. 10 at 12:15 p.m. in Lee Chapel Auditorium.
One hundred years ago this month, Sept. 23, 1916, a young man named Kiffin Rockwell became the first alumnus of Washington and Lee University to give his life during World War I — not as an American doughboy, as you might expect, but as a founding member of the French air squadron known as the Escadrille Americaine, or the Lafayette Escadrille.
John G. Casali, John Grado Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering and director of the Auditory Systems Laboratory at Virginia Tech, will give a lecture at W&L Oct. 12 at 4 p.m.
In his 2014 Baccalaureate address at Washington and Lee University, “Community and the Common Good,” the Rev. John M. Cleghorn told the graduates: “This place and the people who give it life have prepared you for life beyond the comforting lap of Lexington. More than that, they have given you a rare advantage and a set of privileges that call on you to live and lead extraordinary lives, lives that reach beyond yourselves.”
The 2016-17 academic year marks the 10-year anniversary for Washington and Lee University’s Staniar Gallery. To mark the occasion, Staniar Gallery will present a group exhibition featuring recent works by Studio Art faculty and W&L alumni who studied art in Wilson Hall and Staniar Gallery. “Decade: Staniar Gallery's 10-Year Anniversary Exhibition” will be on view Sept. 30–Oct. 28.
The Roanoke Times featured a story about W&L alumnus Matt Simpson '12, who earned a silver medal last week as a member of the U.S. men’s goalball team at the Paralympic Games in Rio de Janeiro. Read the full story.
Peter Singer, the Ira W. DeCamp Professor of Bioethics at Princeton University and a Laureate Professor at the Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics at the University of Melbourne, is the keynote speaker for the 2016–17 Markets and Morals series, sponsored by the Roger Mudd Center for Ethics at W&L
The following opinion piece by Bob Strong, William Lyne Wilson Professor of Politics at Washington and Lee, appeared in The Roanoke Times on September 23, 2016, and is reprinted here by permission.
Stephanie Sandberg's play "Stories in Blue: A Pilgrimage to Heal Human Trafficking"debuts this week at ArtPrize in Grand Rapids, MI. Sandberg, assistant professor of theater at Washington and Lee, was interviewed about the play on NPR's Stateside program.
Ellen Mayock, Ernest Williams II Professor of Romance Languages and professor of women’s and gender studies at Washington and Lee University, was featured in a recent story in Inside Higher Ed.
On Sept. 15, Gerry and Marguerite Lenfest joined hundreds of friends and neighbors at a ceremony for the official opening of the Museum of the American Revolution’s outdoor plaza and the unveiling of the plaque naming the recently completed museum building in the Lenfest’s honor. The museum officially opens to the public on April 19, 2017.
Harald Leibrecht, former member of the Bundestag (German Federal Parliament), will give a lecture on “Germany and the European Union: Current Issues and Challenges” at Washington and Lee University on Sept. 22 at 7 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
Highlights of the series include the Oct. 7 keynote address by Oxford professor David Miller, author of "Strangers in our Midst."
The Anne and Edgar Basse Jr. Author Talk Series, presented by the Leyburn University Library at Washington and Lee University, continues at 5 p.m. on Thursday, Oct. 20, with a talk by H. Thomas Williams, emeritus professor of physics at W&L.
The 3rd Annual Lara D. Gass Symposium on Women in the Law is scheduled for Friday, September 23 and will focus on women in politics.
Washington and Lee University will kick off its National Hispanic Heritage Month celebration with two guest speakers on Tuesday, Sept. 20.
Actress and producer Paten Hughes’ dream role would be to play Hillary Clinton. “I find her incredibly interesting,” she said in an interview with The Tulcan Times.  In the meantime, the recent W&L French and theater graduate has another project that launched Sept. 9 — “Heirloom,” the debut of a nine-part rom-com web series on Vimeo.
When Jon Philipson, a top-billing associate at the Carlton Fields law firm, decided to take paternity leave, his "friends questioned my sanity and told me I was committing career suicide," he said in an essay published on the Motto website (Time Magazine). "One asked: 'How do you go from law review editor in chief to tummy time connoisseur?' "
David Miller, professor of political theory, University of Oxford, and official fellow in social and political theory, Nuffield College, Oxford, will give the keynote address for the German Law in Context Program at Washington and Lee University School of Law on Oct. 7 at 3 p.m. in Millhiser Moot Court Room, Lewis Hall.
Author and poet Erika Meitner will be reading from her work at Washington and Lee University on Sept. 28 at 4:30 p.m. in the Hillel House Multipurpose Room (room 101).
Timothy Diette, Redenbaugh Associate Professor of Economics at Washington and Lee University, weighs in on the debate over free college in WalletHub.
Members of Washington and Lee's Executive Committee, College Republicans and College Democrats placed American flags on the walkway between Lee Chapel and Washington Hall this weekend in remembrance of those who lost their lives in New York, Pennsylvania and Washington, D.C. 15 years ago.
The Anne and Edgar Basse Jr. Author Talk Series, presented by the Leyburn University Library at Washington and Lee University, will begin this academic year with a talk by Professor Ellen Mayock on Tuesday, Sept. 20.
Matt Simpson, a 2012 graduate of Washington and Lee University, posted a photo of himself and the U.S. men’s goalball team decked out in their Team U.S.A. uniforms just before the opening ceremonies of the 2016 Paralympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, which runs Sept. 7 – 18.
Warren, who also serves as the director of the Society's American Revolution Institute, will lecture on "The American Revolution and National Identity.”
When Matt Simpson &#039;12 rang in the new year of 2016, he knew it was going to be one that would change his life. &quot;It&#039;s a big year; it&#039;s really here,&quot; he said. Simpson has been working toward this year since he was 10 years old and joined his first goalball team. In September, he [&hellip;]
On Thursday, Sept. 15, Ivan Fong, general counsel of 3M, will discuss his career as a general counsel in a talk titled “Off the Record: Life as Outside, Government, and Inside Counsel.”
Dr. Edward L. Ayers, the Tucker-Boatwright Professor of the Humanities and president emeritus at the University of Richmond, will give a lecture at Washington and Lee University on Sept. 22 at 7 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
Nigel Smith, the William and Annie S. Paton Foundation Professor of Ancient and Modern Literature at Princeton University, will give a lecture at Washington and Lee University on Sept. 22 at 5 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
The Constitution Day lecture at Washington and Lee University, featuring Dr. William B. Allen, emeritus professor of political philosophy at Michigan State University, will be Sept. 16 at 4:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
When the floodwaters from the August storms in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, finally receded, James McCullum was one of many volunteers to head to the devastated region. A member of the Maryland-based Ananda Marga Universal Relief Team, he connected with the St. Bernard Project to help gut homes damaged by the flooding.
“Food allergies are not a niche,” said Robyn O’Brien, a 1993 graduate of Washington and Lee University and founder of the AllergyKids Foundation. “It is a growing epidemic that is challenging how we think about our food and how it is made. Genetic factors don’t change this quickly, environmental factors do. Are we allergic to food or to what’s been done to it?”
Tom Wolfe poses an interesting question in his newest book, “The Kingdom of Speech”: Why can’t science explain the origins of human language?
The first exhibit of the academic year at Washington and Lee University’s Staniar Gallery, which will be on view Sept. 1–24, is “Geolocation: Tributes to the Data Stream,” photographs by Nate Larson and Marni Shindelman.
The 2016 Washington and Lee University Entrepreneurship Summit, hosted by the J. Lawrence Connolly Center for Entrepreneurship at W&L, will take place Sept 23–24. The keynote speakers are Ben Sutton, co-founder and chairman emeritus of IMG College and Erika Hagberg, the head of Food and Beverage at Google.
Ambassador Theodore Kattouf, the first speaker of Washington and Lee’s 2016-18 Center for International Educational Colloquium on “Borders and Their Human Impact,” will give a lecture on Sept. 14 at 5:15 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
In February 2017, U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg will visit W&L Law and will give a seated interview in VMI’s Cameron Hall.
Charles R. Johnson, award-winning philosopher, novelist, essayist, short story writer, and scholar of black American literature and Buddhism, will address Washington and Lee University’s 2016 Fall Convocation at 5:30pm on Wednesday, September 7.
When Feyisa Lilesa of Ethiopia took second in the Olympic marathon with his wrists crossed over his head, he brought the plight of Ethiopia’s Oromo people to the world stage.
Colin Wallace, from Mt. Pleasant, South Carolina, a senior at Washington and Lee University, has been awarded the Rotary District 7570 Skelton/Jones Scholarship, previously the Rotary Ambassadorial Scholarship.
In This Issue: 48 Hours in Lexington Rockbridge Wants You 2- Speak Letters to the Editor 4 – Along the Colonnade Graduation W&L's history of slavery Center for Global Learning opens Retirees and new trustees 11 – Lewis Hall Notes Employment report Moot Court victory 12 – Generals' Report Year-end roundup 28 – Alumni Profile Trust and […]
Johanna Bond, professor of law at Washington and Lee University School of Law, has been appointed associate dean for academic affairs by Dean Brant Hellwig.
In the July issue of Generally Speaking, University Advancement announced that the Annual Fund reached a record of $10.3 million and benefited from the participation of more than 53 percent of undergraduate alumni.&nbsp; The 2015-2016 results represent a 2.72 percent increase over 2014-2015 and includes record amounts given by undergraduate alumni, law alumni and parents. [&hellip;]
Linda Klein, a 1983 graduate of Washington and Lee's School of Law, becomes the seventh W&L Law alumnus to lead the ABA.
The following opinion piece by Bob Strong, William Lyne Wilson Professor of Politics at Washington and Lee, appeared on USA Today's website on August 6, 2016, and is reprinted here by permission.
Scott Hoover, A. Stevens Miles Professor of Banking and Finance at Washington and Lee University, discusses the dos and don'ts of flipping houses in WalletHub.
During this First Friday’s Gallery Walk in downtown Lexington on Aug. 5, be sure to stop by Sweet Treats Bakery to take a look at Mitch Keller’s solo photography exhibition.
W&L was well represented by five alumni and one current undergraduate working at the Republican National Convention, held July 18-21, in Cleveland. One week later, Jake Barr ’16 worked the Democratic National Convention, held July 25 -28 in Philadelphia.
The eight-year relationship between Kelly Evans, a 2007 graduate of Washington and Lee University, and Twitter is over. She also dumped Facebook and Instagram.
The inaugural Woods Creek Montessori STEM summer enrichment camp was held in June, with local 4th, 5th and 6th graders participating in hands-on sessions in science, engineering, technology and math. The interactive sessions were taught by volunteer faculty and staff from W&L and VMI, as well as teachers and students from Rockbridge County High School.
What started as a teaching tool and an annual checklist for local non-profit leaders has grown into a series of social enterprise workshops for both executive directors and board members to stay current on governance best practices.
Lyman Johnson, Robert O. Bentley Professor of Law at Washington and Lee University School of Law, served as an expert witness in the recently settled bankruptcy case against Jon Corzine and the commodities firm MF Global.
The following opinion piece by Seth Cantey, Assistant Professor of Politics at Washington and Lee, appeared on USA Today's website on July 21, 2016, and is reprinted here by permission.
Lee Sommerfeldt, from Sealy, Texas, a junior at Washington and Lee University, has received a Bridging Scholarship for Study Abroad in Japan and a Morgan Stanley Scholarship. He will be studying at International Christian University (I.C.U.) in Tokyo during the 2016-17 academic year.
The Roanoke Times features a story about W&L Mock Convention's "notable track record for accuracy," following this week's Republican National Convention.
Karla Murdock, Elmes Professor of Psychology, was quoted in a recent piece on the media site FUSION.
Washington and Lee journalism major Rachel Stone ’17 recently found herself reporting on one of this summer’s most heartbreaking stories. As an intern at the Charlotte (North Carolina) Observer, she was assigned to interview the mother of Lorne Ahrens, one of five police officers shot and killed in Dallas on July 7.
Bob Strong, William Lyne Wilson Professor of Politics at Washington and Lee, was quoted in a recent MSN article on Why Presidential Candidates Keep Dumbing it Down.
If you’re interested in the inner workings of an event commerce company — and especially if you’re interested in a great way to use that liberal arts degree — check out this interview in the Chicago Tribune with Jackie (Neilson) Coleman, a 2008 graduate of Washington and Lee University. She is the senior product manager at Eved, in Chicago.
Jenny Elmes, a member of Washington and Lee University’s Class of 1991, this month received a nice honor for her Lexington business, full circle catering: Top Green Provider for 2016.
During her student days at Washington and Lee University, A’rese Emokpae danced and acted on many a stage at the Lenfest Center before graduating in 2010. Over the past six years, she’s been pursuing a career in musical theater, and now she’s putting her talents to the test by competing on “The Voice Nigeria” TV show.
Lynn Symansky ’05 said she has “essentially been trying out for the Olympics” ever since she began competing during college at the top level of the equestrian sport. 2016 is her year.
Shenandoah: the Washington and Lee University Literary Review has announced its annual prize winners for 2016. The volume 65 winner of the $1,000 James Boatwright Poetry Prize is David Wojahn, who teaches at Virginia Commonwealth University, for his poem “A Briefe Historie of the Noose in the Colonie of Virginia.”
Florida Gov. Rick Scott appointed Robert M. Dees, a 1984 graduate of Washington and Lee University, to the Fourth Judicial Circuit Court.
As the Freedom of Information Act nears its 50th anniversary, Washington and Lee law professor Mark H. Grunewald has announced the completion of the first phase of interviews for an oral history project commemorating FOIA, which was signed by President Johnson on July 4, 1966.
Paqui Toscano, a member of Washington and Lee University’s class of 2017, has been named a national leader of the year by Omicron Delta Kappa (ODK), the national leadership honor society.
Ever wonder how much BBQ Americans consume on Independence Day? According to a feature on WalletHub, “Ask the Experts: Celebrating Independence the Right Way,” it’s around 900 million lbs.
Kelli Carpenter Fleming, a 2003 graduate of Washington and Lee University, has been named to the Birmingham Business Journal’s Rising Stars of Health Care list for 2016.
Facebook analysts chose the Washington and Lee Law Review to share for the first time a study describing their internal research review and privacy review process.
Donald Lemons, Chief Justice of the Virginia Supreme Court and Professor at Washington and Lee University School of Law, is the 2016 recipient of the William R. Rakes Leadership in Education Award.
Last year, Lenny Enkhbold, a rising junior at Washington and Lee University, was selected as one of 13 founding members of the Merrell College Ambassadors. His charge was to develop and implement a semester-long strategy to engage campuses and communities in outdoor recreation. With the $1,000 that Merrell provided to W&L’s Outing Club, Lenny created a Merrell nature scholarship.
Registration is now open to Washington and Lee alumni for the 2016 Entrepreneurship Summit, hosted by the Williams School’s Connolly Center for Entrepreneurship. The Summit will take place Sept. 23–24 and is open to all alumni, students and friends of the university. Attending the Summit is free but all attendees must register by Sept. 16.
John F. Hendon Professor of Economics and Director of Environmental Studies James R. Kahn has been named president-elect of the United States Society for Ecological Economics (USSEE).
Real Simple magazine, with its pages of healthy recipes, useful organizing tips and affordable beauty products, isn’t necessarily the first publication where one might turn for wisdom from a historian. Appearances can be deceiving, however, because the editors were smart enough to ask Ted DeLaney, associate professor of history at Washington and Lee University, for a recommendation that’s included in “5 U.S. Historic Sites Everyone Should Visit,” an article in the June 2016 issue.
Matthew Neill Null, a member of Washington and Lee University’s Class of 2006, will soon be practicing his craft — fiction writing — in Rome. Last month he won the Joseph Brodsky Rome Prize from the American Academy of Arts and Letters.
During his 40 years at Washington and Lee University, Professor Larry Boetsch has received many honors, but probably nothing like the ones that came his way this spring from Steven E. Losquadro, a member of the W&L Class of 1986.
Spencer Cox, a 2001 graduate of Washington and Lee University School of Law and Lt. Governor of the State of Utah, is receiving national attention for a speech he delivered on Monday in Salt Lake City at a vigil for the victims of the Orlando shooting.
Washington and Lee University’s Community Grants Committee has made 10 grants totaling $24,757 to non-profit organizations in Lexington and Rockbridge County. They are the second part of its two rounds of grants for 2015-16.
Bren Flanigan, a 2016 graduate of Washington and Lee University, will be putting his B.A. in economics and global politics to work with the United Nations over the summer before he departs for his posting with the Peace Corps, as a community economic development advisor in Benin.
The following opinion piece by Kenneth P. Ruscio, president of&nbsp;Washington and Lee, appeared in the June 12, 2016, edition of the Richmond Times-Dispatch and is reprinted here by permission. The Value of Civility: Pessimism or Optimism for the Class of 2016? by Kenneth P. Ruscio Standing in front of the Class of 2016 last month [&hellip;]
Patrick Wright, from Tampa, Florida, a 2016 graduate from Washington and Lee University, has been awarded a Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange for Young Professionals (CBYX) fellowship for study and internship experience in Germany.
The Bankers’ Association for Finance and Trade (BAFT) has named Ryan Welsh, who graduated from Washington and Lee University in 2010, an Emerging Leader in Transaction Banking.