Washington and Lee’s library staff share their recommendations for your next trip to the University Library.
The Human Library, a collaboration between the Mudd Center for Ethics and Leyburn Library, brought the W&L community together in conversation.
Students and faculty will summarize and display their Spring Term research and coursework.
Annie Foster has been selected to the Commercial Integrator 40 Influencers Under 40 listing.
Emily Cook serves as an assistant professor and research and instruction librarian at W&L
Kayla Monaghan ’24 is collaborating on a Summer Research Scholars (SRS) project to enhance resources available through Leyburn Library.
At the heart of campus, both physically and virtually, is the University Library.
The Miranda Collection for Native American Library Acquisitions will feature books by Native American and Indigenous authors and literature on relevant topics.
Hostile Terrain 94, a global pop-up exhibit that takes a powerful look at the human cost of undocumented migration at the U.S. southern border, opened at W&L this week after years of planning and collaboration.
Jeremy Weissman will talk about his recent book, “The Crowdsourced Panopticon: Conformity and Control on Social Media,” on March 31.
Membership in HathiTrust allows the W&L community to access millions of digital books that the university does not have in print in the Leyburn, Telford or Law libraries.
Lesley Wheeler, Henry S. Fox Professor of English at Washington and Lee University and poetry editor for Shenandoah magazine, will give a “spooky-themed” author talk on Oct. 27 at 7 p.m.
Her talk is titled "Not Everything That Counts Can Be Counted: Observations on the Historic and Contemporary Role of the Liberal Arts.”
Coddington’s book is titled “Aggregating the News: Secondhand Knowledge and the Erosion of Journalistic Authority.”
The public reading is free and open to the public.
The talk is free and open to the public, and refreshments will be provided.
Tombarge’s talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “Championing the Lead Casket: Library Leadership in the 21st Century.”
The exhibition, “The Mock Convention Through the Years,” is on display on the first floor of Leyburn Library between Sept. 15-29.
Moataz Khalifa discusses his new job as Leyburn Library's director of data education.
The event allows students to present coursework and research conducted over the duration of the term.
The talk, titled “Storytelling in the Digital Age," is free and open to the public.
A reception and book sale will follow the reading, which is free and open to the public.
Jenefer Davies will talk about her recent book, “Aerial Dance: A Guide to Dance with Rope and Harness.”
Four Martin Luther tracts housed in W&L's Special Collections were fully restored in time for the 500th anniversary of the start of the Protestant Reformation.
Leyburn Library's Author Talk Series will begin this academic year with a talk by W&L Associate Professor of History Barton Myers and Brian McKnight, a history professor at U.Va.-Wise.
Chandler Wickers '18 has spent her summer as a researcher in Special Collections, where she has been exposed to fascinating materials and learned how professors and students can take greater advantage of the collection.
Alvin Carl Hollingsworth was a leading African-American artist whose works can be seen in W&L's Leyburn Library.
In the first installment of this new series, Tom Camden offers the story of a Sumerian clay tablet that is the oldest recorded document in W&L's Special Collections.
"Ginsberg and Beat Fellows: Photographs 1969-1997,” an exhibit of photographs taken by Gordon Ball, visiting associate professor of English, will be on display from May 4–July 13 in Leyburn Library’s Main Floor Exhibit Space at Washington and Lee University.
Chris Gavaler, assistant professor of English at Washington and Lee University, and Lesley Wheeler, the Henry S. Fox Professor of English at W&L, will discuss their latest books on March 15 at 5 p.m. in the Book Nook in Washington and Lee University’s Leyburn Library.
The Aida Mitsuo Calligraphy exhibit reception, co-curated by the Washington and Lee University Japanese Program, will be Jan. 14, 4:30–5:30 p.m. in Leyburn’s Main Floor Exhibit Niche.
Domnica Radulescu, the Edwin A. Morris Professor of Romance Languages and director of the Medieval and Renaissance Studies Program, will be talking about her new book, “Theater of War and Exile: Twelve Playwrights, Directors and Performers from Eastern Europe and Israel” (2015) on Tuesday, Nov. 10 at 5:30 p.m. in Leyburn Library’s Book Nook.
Melissa R. Kerin, assistant professor of art history, will talk about her new book, “Art and Devotion at a Buddhist Temple in the Indian Himalaya” (2015), on Nov. 5 at 5 p.m. in Washington and Lee’s Book Nook in Leyburn Library.
The Leyburn Library is hosting an Open Access (OA) Panel on Oct. 21 at 4 p.m. in Leyburn Library’s Northen Auditorium. The panel is in celebration of Open Access Week (Oct. 19–25).
Deborah Miranda, the John Lucian Smith Professor of English at Washington and Lee, will be talking about her new book, “Raised by Humans” on Oct. 7 at 4 p.m. in Leyburn Library’s Book Nook. “Raised by Humans” was published in April, 2015.
Researchers now have an easy way to comb through the 1,000 collections of manuscripts and photographs at Washington and Lee University’s Special Collections and Archives. “The department has launched its first online search tool, which will enable researchers to discover these treasures,” said Alston Cobourn, digital scholarship librarian at W&L.
Washington and Lee University has received project grants totaling $950,000 from The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation — one to develop new methods of teaching the humanities using technology and another to study how the lessons of history help us interpret contemporary issues.
Coinciding with the 150th anniversary of General Robert E. Lee's surrender at Appomattox on April 9, 1865, Washington and Lee University has received the gift of a rare collection of 29 vintage prints and original graphics depicting the historic event. It is arguably the most comprehensive collection of such images — all of immaculate museum quality and including two original works by artists of the period.
Maurice D. Leach Jr., who headed the library at Washington and Lee University from 1968 to 1985, died on March 21, in Lexington. He was 91.
Patrons of Washington and Lee University's Library may now read the digital archives of the Times of London, one of the best-known newspapers in the world, which has been covering world events since 1785.
Washington and Lee faculty members Sara Sprenkle, Paul Youngman, Jeff Barry and Julie Knudson have published a case study on blended learning in the liberal arts.
Douglas Bradburn, the founding director of the Fred W. Smith National Library for the Study of George Washington at Mount Vernon, will be the keynote speaker at the annual meeting of Washington and Lee University's Friends of the Library on Saturday, May 3.
When 10 inches of snow make it necessary to "close" Washington and Lee, not every employee stays home for the day—or the night. Nearly 1,000 people live on campus, depending on the University for food and beverage, health services, security, utilities and, of course, snow removal. Designated essential personnel make their way to campus regardless of the conditions, working as long as necessary to take care of the academic community.
Appointment of former associate librarian for digital services and strategies effective July 1.
An experimental classroom at Washington and Lee puts the professor in the middle, rather than at the front.
Washington and Lee University's Leyburn Library has created a new website that catalogues almost 60 percent of graves in the Stonewall Jackson Memorial Cemetery in Lexington, Va.
More than 150 Civil War-era newspapers have found a home in the Special Collections of Washington and Lee University’s Leyburn Library thanks to Fred Farrar, a member of W&L’s Class of 1941 and a retired teacher of journalism.
Lisa McCown, the senior library assistant in Special Collections at Washington and Lee's Leyburn Library, has received the Ruth Anderson McCulloch Award from the Southern Shenandoah Valley Branch of Preservation Virginia.
Barbara Jeanne Brown, University librarian at Washington and Lee University from 1985 to 2003, died on Aug. 27, 2011, in Lexington, Va. She was 69. Brown was named University librarian in 1985 and served in that position until retiring in 2003. She had previously spent five years, from 1971 to 1976, as head of reference [&hellip;]
Six Civil War diaries written by a Confederate soldier and providing a first-hand account of the war in Virginia are now part of Special Collections at Washington and Lee University&#039;s Leyburn Library, the result of a multi-donor gift to the University. Archivists and researchers would be delighted enough over this newly discovered set of diaries. [&hellip;]
Terry Metz, library director and a professor at the U.S. Naval War College in Newport, R.I., has been named University librarian at Washington and Lee University. Metz&#039;s appointment, announced by Robert Strong, interim provost at Washington and Lee, is effective Sept. 1. Selected at the conclusion of a national search, Metz succeeds Merrily Taylor, who [&hellip;]