“Myth, Magic, and Madness” will feature a dynamic lineup of creative workshops, dramatic readings and staged productions March 21-22.
Katie Yurechko ’24 blends her studies in computer science, philosophy, and poverty and human capability to make technology more equitable — and to connect communities.
Yurechko ’24 is the university’s first Marshall Scholar.
Tsang’s talk will be held on Dec. 1 at 5 p.m.
Katie Yurechko ’24 presented research related to content creators circumventing TikTok’s content moderation algorithms.
Katie Yurechko ’24 presented on how algorithm awareness impacts algospeak use on TikTok.
Lakpa Sherpa ’25 and Ignas Volcokas ’25 designed a personal learning assistant that utilizes the power of artificial intelligence.
The upcoming screening is the second installment in the DeLaney Center's ongoing film series.
McMaster has been awarded a Fulbright research grant to Italy to complete a hybrid art history and computer science project.
John Adekola ’24 sees his role with Phonathon as a chance to make a difference at W&L.
Professor Cody Watson's paper analyzes the use of deep learning in software engineering research.
Cody Watson, an assistant professor of computer science, has published a paper in the International Conference on Software Engineering.
Professor Matthews received an outstanding paper award at the 13th International Conference on Game and Entertainment Technologies.
Moataz Khalifa, assistant professor and director of Data Education, is collaborating on a non-invasive, early detection system of the virus.
An all-student team has created a versatile app for Mock Con 2020, bringing ticketing, program information and image sharing onto attendees’ phones and eliminating thousands of pages of printed material.
Arkin is a roboticist and roboethicist.
 Women in Technology workshops introduced Ruopeng Zhang '21 and Caroline Blackmon '19 to basic web development in a collaborative and fun environment. They urge other students to take advantage of the next round of workshops.
Deepthi Thumuluri '20 won a Virginia Academy of Sciences grant to continue her research into the relationship between diet-induced obesity, exercise and the gut microbiome.
Whether he's working with the Williams Investment Society or playing jazz guitar, Joe Wen '19 makes the most of his W&L experience.
Mark Donohue '19 spent the summer working as a software engineering intern at a company called AGCO, located in southern Bavaria.
Gonz Ferrero ’04 and Lenny Enkhbold ’17 blend their shared concern for the environment with a dash of business savvy to promote eco-friendly outdoor wear. 
Truth Iyiewuare '18 looks back at his growth as a member—and then president—of the Student Association for Black Unity at W&L.  
The NSF only funds about 11,000 of the 40,000 proposals it receives annually for research, education and training projects. 
At this small-town university, Nora Devlin '19 has been exposed to viewpoints from all over the globe.
Graham Novak '19 may only be a junior at W&L, but he has already lined up a job — at his own company. 
Lex McGriff '18 has grown into a leader in W&L's Student Association for Black Unity. As she prepares for graduation, she hopes more underclassmen will become leaders like her.
Sima Sharma ’18 used her time at W&L to explore her passion for the world and its various cultures through volunteering and study abroad.
Swimmer, computer coder, and Speaking Tradition advocate Will McMurtry '18 chose W&L over nine other schools, in large part because of its community.
Anukriti Shrestha '19 has found an intersection of mathematics, computer science and research — all in the heart of Lexington.
Karishma Patel '18 loves finding the intersections of technology and business - while studying abroad in Madrid.
Meet Lenny Enkhbold '17, a computer scientist with a passion for the outdoors, who isn't afraid to have a good laugh.
Meet Graham Novak '19, an aspiring - and already accomplished - entrepreneur
Dan Claroni spent the summer working on unmanned aerial vehicles used to monitor gas emissions in Iceland.
Alfred Rwagaju is a Physics-Engineering major from Rwanda.