Three Washington and Lee University graduates received scholarships from the National Leadership Honor Society to support graduate and professional study.
Young learned the critical skills to excel at her job from the veteran journalists in Reid Hall.
Mugo says that, above all, W&L taught her to "always be curious."
Poppenberg has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Argentina starting in March 2022.
With the support of faculty and fellow students, Charlotte Cook '19 acted in seven theater productions at W&L while juggling a major, two minors and other extracurricular activities.
In his Commencement address, President Dudley described the multitude of ways in which the Class of 2019's W&L education has prepared them for a lifetime of learning, leadership and service.
While at Washington and Lee, Lencioni has taken several German classes and studied abroad in Berlin.
All three shows are free and open to the public, and no tickets are required.
 Reese is an English major and studio art minor. 
Syed is a biology major and a Middle East and South Asia studies minor.
Hiromasa says her time at Washington and Lee and various volunteer opportunities she has participated in have prepared her for this next step in her educational journey.
Layne Setash '19 recently earned a Distinguished Teacher Award from the Virginia Association of Colleges of Teacher Education.
Reid Gaede ’19 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany. 
CBYX is a yearlong fellowship, funded by the German Bundestag and U.S. Congress through the U.S. Department of State. 
Washington and Lee University senior Kathryn McEvoy ’19 has received a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain for summer 2019. 
Washington and Lee University senior Jackson Ellis ’19 has won a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Germany for summer 2019.
Students took first place in three categories in the Society of Professional Journalists’ regional college journalism competition.
Agrippina has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship to Spain.
 In Tanzania, Mugo will study the perception of the life of refugees after resettlement.
Garrett Clinton '20 says attending W&L is "like being dropped into a pool of opportunities.'' 
Delegates representing the more than 300 circles of Omicron Delta Kappa (ODK) gathered in Charlotte, North Carolina, to review and vote upon a new governance structure.
Dau will live and work in Vienna for nine months.
Fon Teawdatwan '19 has led three service trips to Charleston, West Virginia, for Volunteer Venture, a service-learning, pre-orientation program for incoming students.
At W&L, a combination of incredible courses, extracurricular opportunities and a warm community made for an experience Will Shannon '19 calls "uniquely mine."
Her scholarship will fund a nine- to 12-month study of small-scale cultural heritage looting operations in the Golden Triangle of India.
Each spring, the W&L art department showcases the senior theses of studio majors in a professional gallery setting.
Edwin Castellanos Campos '20 came up with the idea for the special edition after taking a Spring Term sociology/anthropology course about U.S. immigration and refugees.
Becoming a part of the Outing Club at Washington and Lee completely changed Matt Richards's college experience. "My time with the Outing Club has without a doubt had the biggest impact on my time here," he said.
MaKayla Lorick '19 is collecting oral histories from African-American alumni, faculty and staff as part of a project that aims to include those missing perspectives in Washington and Lee University's history of desegregation and integration.
Margaret Kallus ’19 will be the second W&L alumna to join a team of economists at the Harvard University research institute, Opportunity Insights.
What A Racket, a nonprofit community service organization founded by Catherine Savoca '19, teaches Rockbridge-area kids the fundamentals of tennis and fitness.
Abiza will receive a master’s degree in global affairs from Tsinghua University in China.
 Zainab Abiza ’19 studied at Princeton and spent time in Rabat, Morocco, with a Davis Projects for Peace grant. This semester, she's working to expand her Davis project.
Whether he's working with the Williams Investment Society or playing jazz guitar, Joe Wen '19 makes the most of his W&L experience.
Dannick Kenon '19, who plans to attend law school and devote his career to positive social change, has co-founded a new student publication at W&L called The Vigil.
Washington Term, study abroad opportunities and internships—including one with the Philadelphia Eagles—have helped to shape Jason Renner's plans for the future.
Megan Engeland '19 spent her summer in a research laboratory in the psychology department at the University of Sydney in Australia.
Whether she's leading the Student Association for Black Unity, acting in a play or volunteering in the community as a Bonner Scholar, Sasha Edwards '20 is ever mindful that education can happen anywhere.
Daniel Rhoades '19 spent the summer immersed in the language and culture of Costa Rica.
Mark Donohue '19 spent the summer working as a software engineering intern at a company called AGCO, located in southern Bavaria.
Erin An '19 has spent time this summer researching immunotherapy treatments for pediatric cancer at the University of Virginia.
Catherine Savoca ’19 explored the real estate development industry this summer as a sales and marketing intern in Lisbon, Portugal.
The Critical Language Scholarship Program has allowed Riley Ries '19 to strengthen his Russian and learn more about politics and culture in Kyrgyzstan.
While digging at the Athenian Agora Excavation in Greece this summer, Allison Schuster '19 indulged her passion for archaeology and classics.
Yoko Koyama '19 put her W&L learning to work this summer at National Instruments Japan.
W&L students Graham Novak '19 and Mourad Berrached '20 won a $15,000 prize at the 2018 Schulze Entrepreneurship Challenge. 
This summer, Davis Straske '19 is researching children's play in psychology professor Megan Fulcher's Gender Development Lab. 
Attending the Princeton Environmental Ideathon was a natural progression for Julianna Keeling '19, who started a sustainable packaging company when she was still in high school. 
Danielle Spickard '19 is taking full advantage of what the Sydney Internship and Study Abroad Program has to offer.
Doan Bui ’21 and Hashim Syed ’19 have won Gilman Scholarships to study abroad.
Elizabeth McDonald heads to Japan, Emily Austin to Indonesia and Riley Ries to Kyrgyzstan.
Reese and two friends brought the First-Generation Low-Income Partnership to W&L, where it provides resources and a voice for students.
Soon Ho spends his days in Australia studying at the University of Sydney and interning at Greencross Limited, Australia's largest pet care company.
At this small-town university, Nora Devlin '19 has been exposed to viewpoints from all over the globe.
Kat Oakley '19 has spent a lot of time contemplating the idea of "place" - both in Lexington and across the world. 
Graham Novak '19 may only be a junior at W&L, but he has already lined up a job — at his own company. 
Uma Sarwadnya '19 knew she wanted to be a doctor her whole life. What she didn't know was how many unique opportunities she would find at W&L to support her journey — including a project with ants.
Skyler T. Zunk ’19 was an intern at the White House's Office of Political Affairs.
Jackson Roberts '19 had the opportunity to intern in Quito, Ecuador, exploring local customs, becoming part of the community, and learning the ins and outs of healthcare.
Kathryn E. Young '19 got a Reynolds Business Scholarship that allowed her to intern at her hometown newspaper, the Richmond Times-Dispatch.
As a general assignment intern at The Roanoke Times, Rachel Hicks '19 learned how to be firm with difficult sources.
Marta Regn ’19 used her internship to throughly explore all aspects of a sustainable, ethical jewelry startup.
Katrina Lewis' business reporting internship took her to the Boston Business Journal, where she covered real estate news and development.
Ethiopia Getachew '19 always had an interest in science, but working in the biochemistry lab and volunteering with local EMTs helped her future plans take shape.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Xiaoxia Yin '20 and Sesha Carrier '20 to study traditional folk singing in China.
Caroline Blackmon interned this summer with The Dunwoody Crier in Georgia.
Julia Kaczmar '19 spent a summer in New York City, learning the logistics of the latest fashions.
Abigail Summerville '19, a business journalism major, interned on the CNBC.com breaking news desk.
A grant from the Endeavor Foundation allowed Yoko Koyama '19 and Maren Lundgren '18 to open a store in Cameroon that will fund transportation for local children to go to middle school in a neighboring town.
Over the summer, students worked with Professor Robert Humston to examine the potential effects of smallmouth bass on native brook trout populations in the Virginia watershed.
Lorena Hernandez Barcena '19 had an eye-opening summer internship with Harlem Children’s Zone, an education nonprofit in New York.
Laura Wang '19 interned for the Shell company in Shanghai, putting her communications skills to the test and making new friends along the way.
Elly Cosgrove '19 stayed busy this summer with internships at the Greater Wilmington Business Journal and WECT (Channel 6).
After spending Spring Term in Ethiopia, Jack Kaelin '19 is in Austin, Texas, helping refugees find a place to call home. 
Julia Poppenberg '19 spent the summer as a translator in Guatemala, helping doctors and patients alike and learning to "talk strong."
Anukriti Shrestha '19 has found an intersection of mathematics, computer science and research — all in the heart of Lexington.
Jack Miller '19 has spent his summer in the bush of South Africa, learning about wildlife and conservation - and having a few close calls in the field.
Josh Fox '19 has spent his summer conducting geology research on campus and in Crete, Greece, with Professor Jeff Rahl.
MK Moran's work with the LGBTQ Resource Center at Washington and Lee is impacting student perspectives.
Meet Ryder Babik '19, a student who enjoys college as much as he enjoys helping others apply to college.
Meet Graham Novak '19, an aspiring - and already accomplished - entrepreneur