These faculty have been recognized for their outstanding teaching, scholarship and service to the university.
“Myth, Magic, and Madness” will feature a dynamic lineup of creative workshops, dramatic readings and staged productions March 21-22.
The assistant professor of history will hold her talk on Feb. 7 at noon in the Harte Center Gallery.
The professor has also published two literary works in recent months. 
The campus community will recognize women’s achievements with various events throughout the month of March.
The upcoming screening is the second installment in the DeLaney Center's ongoing film series.
Katie Shester is an associate professor of economics and a core faculty member for the Shepherd Program for the Interdisciplinary Study of Poverty and Human Capability, as well as Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies.
Benefiel’s talk “Uncovering the mysteries of Pompeii” will be held on Nov. 10.
“The Red Widow” hit bookshelves on Sept. 6 and has received positive reviews.
The campus will celebrate women’s achievements with various events throughout the month of March.
The Jan. 26 event, which is free and open to the public to view online, will celebrate 20 Years of WGSS at W&L.
The celebration includes a film screening, a faculty panel and a trivia game. All events are free and open to the public.
Minson is a politics major, with a minor in women’s gender and sexuality studies. 
Andy Smithey '20 is editor-in-chief of a new student publication, founded by Liv Cooper '20 and Genna Feirson '20, that aims to amplify unheard voices on campus.
Hannah Denham '20 has combined business journalism with women and gender studies at W&L to create a liberal arts education that suits her interests and ambition.
Rebecca M. Jordan-Young, a sociomedical scientist, is the fourth speaker in the 2017-18 “Ethics of Identity” series.
W&L History Professor Sarah Horowitz addresses "the upper-class claim to a right to rule — and misrule" in the Washington Post.
Kelly Douma ’16 is on track to complete her doctorate in early modern German history and women’s studies by 2021.
Danielle Hughson's honors thesis will be focused on male editorial control and how it affects female writers, within a familial and patriarchal context.
Liz Todd '19 was able to extend her Spring Term Abroad and spend the summer in Brazil, where she worked for an environmental agency.