The voice recital will be held on April 12 at 8 p.m.
The student ensemble will be joined by the Rockbridge County High School Jazz Ensemble in their April 11 performance.
The former executive director of ArtPower at the University of California, San Diego will begin his new role in July.
The ensemble will perform at W&L’s Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts on April 7.
The April 8 performance will also feature the winners of W&L’s Concerto-Aria Contest.
Lynch’s soprano recital will be held on April 6 at 8 p.m.
A meeting with a Broadway legend allowed engineering major Zaria Daniels ’26 to take her vocal talents to Cuba.
Kogan’s piano recital will be held on March 24 at 3 p.m.
Thomas’s piano recital will be held on March 29 at 8 p.m.
Performances of the high school samurai tale run April 3-5.
The performance will take place March 28 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center’s Wilson Concert Hall.
The iconic myth comes to life March 21-22 in Wilson Concert Hall.
Hart’s violin recital will be held on March 17 at 3 p.m.
The award-winning ensemble’s performances will run March 14-16.
The ensemble concludes a performance tour with its March 5 concert at the Lenfest Center.
The March 12 performance in Wilson Concert Hall will feature W&L’s University Singers, Glee Club and Cantatrici.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company’s alumni-student dance performance in New York City’s Center for Performance Research returned after a four-year hiatus.
The W&L faculty duo will perform on Feb. 18 at 3 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
A reception in Lykes Atrium will follow the band’s Feb. 17 performance in Wilson Concert Hall.
The interactive exhibition will run from Feb. 13 through March 25.
The ensemble’s Feb. 10 performance is sponsored by the university’s Concert Guild.
The Feb. 11 performance will be followed by a reception.
Ryan Connell is the athletics broadcaster and athletics multimedia creative specialist.
The Jan. 24 performance will take place in the Lenfest Center’s Keller Theatre.
The Jan. 21 performance will include selected readings and musical reflections.
The Jan. 20 choral performance is sponsored by the Concert Guild.
Susan Wager is the assistant director of the Lenfest Center.
The W&L Repertory Dance Company’s performances will run Nov. 30 through Dec. 2.
W&L’s recent staging of ‘Speech & Debate’ brought its cast, crew and audience an opportunity to engage with an innovative, collaborative approach to theater.
The performance will take place Nov. 16 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center’s Wilson Concert Hall.
The ensemble will perform Nov. 11 at 7:30 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
The student ensemble will be joined by the Vosbein Magee Big Band in their Nov. 9 performance.
The solo exhibition will run from Nov. 1 through Dec. 8, 2023.
The performance will take place Nov. 6 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center’s Wilson Concert Hall.
The ensemble will perform at W&L’s Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts on Nov. 5.
The production runs from Nov. 1-4 in Johnson Theatre on the W&L campus.
The Oct. 28 concert is sponsored by the Pickens World Music series.
The performance in Wilson Concert Hall will feature W&L’s University Singers, Glee Club and Cantatrici.
The pianist’s Oct. 21 performance is sponsored by the Concert Guild.
The Oct. 9 performance will take place in the Lenfest Center’s Keller Theatre.
The chamber ensemble’s performance is sponsored by the Concert Guild.
A reception will follow the Sept. 29 performance in Keller Theatre. 
A reception in Lykes Atrium will follow the ensemble’s Sept. 23 performance in Wilson Concert Hall.
Tickets for the entire season will be available to purchase beginning Sept. 11.
The solo exhibition will run from Sept. 4 through Oct. 25 and kicks off the gallery’s fall season.
Gordon taught at W&L from 1974 to 2001.
The faculty duo will perform at W&L’s Lenfest Center on May 14.
The solo exhibition will run from April 24 to May 25 in Staniar Gallery inside Washington and Lee University’s Lenfest Center for the Arts.
The April 6 program will feature the Michael Allen Trio and several student soloists.
Performance will take place April 3 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center’s Wilson Concert Hall.
The ensemble will perform at W&L’s Lenfest Center on March 19.
Student ensembles explore the hero’s journey at the March 14 performance.
The show runs from March 9-11 in Keller Theatre on the W&L Campus.
The March 10 concert will feature the award-winning “Detroit’s queen of the blues.”
A reception in Lykes Atrium will follow the jazz ensemble’s March 4 performance in Wilson Concert Hall.
University Singers placed third in the festival’s International Open Competition and received the prestigious Visit Derry Award for their final performance.
The show will run for three nights: May 17-19. Tickets are required.
“Thumbelina” will be presented at Keller Theatre in two performances on Feb. 12 at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. Tickets are required.
The all-male dance group will perform their delightful parodies of great ballet classics at the Lenfest Center for the Arts on Feb. 15.
Join the University Orchestra on Nov. 18 for a performance titled “What’s Old is New Again.”
Tickets for the 2022 season can be purchased online using a credit card or in-person at the Lenfest Center box office beginning Nov. 30.
The public recital, “Musical Innovators: Prokofiev and Shostakovich,” is scheduled for Sept. 12 at 3 p.m. in the Wilson Concert Hall.
The W&L community is invited to an in-person outdoor concert on April 5.
No tickets are required for the production, which will be performed at Blackfriars Playhouse in Staunton on Sept. 12 and streamed live in cinema quality. 
Writer Branden Jacobs-Jenkins, who based this play on the anonymous 15th-century "Everyman," presents a new take on an old story and the old question of what happens when we cross over to the other side.
No tickets are required.
W&L presents a faculty recital featuring Julia Goudimova on cello and Anna Billias on piano in an evening of romantically inclined music of Nordic countries.
Having played in every kind of venue imaginable, from coffee houses to world-class concert halls, Haimovitz creates music for every kind of audience.
Tickets are not required.
The Grammy Award-winning male a cappella group is in its 41st season.
Tickets to the show can be ordered online or at the box office.
Allie Jue '20 has learned how to keep her studies in music and pre-med in perfect harmony with a job and extracurricular activities at W&L.
 Call the Lenfest Center box office today at 540-458-8000 to reserve tickets.
 Call the Lenfest Box Office at 540-458-8000 to get your name on the waiting list.
The show is free and open to the public.
In the spirit of Halloween, Thorburn and Wappel will create a musical soundscape inspired by the legends, literature and classic films of the season.
The concert is free and open to the public, and no tickets are required. 
Tickets are free but required, and they are offered first to W&L parents and family.
The program will include 14 works, all of which were performed by Gaylard in recitals between 1987 and 2017.
All three shows are free and open to the public, and no tickets are required.
The all-student band is comfortable performing in a wide range of styles, and this concert will present an impressive gamut.
The show is free and open to the public. 
 The concert is open to the public, and no tickets are required.
The performance is a preview of the group’s upcoming tour of Scotland.
 The show is free and open to the public.
“The Cherry Orchard” is the final full play written by Anton Chekhov, who is considered by many to be the father of modern drama.
Their public performance is titled “Old Made New.”
The concert will take place in Wilson Hall, and is free and open to the public.
Don't miss the one-night performance of “Antigone” on Feb. 8 at 7:30 p.m. in the Keller Theatre.
BodyVox comes to Lexington for a one-night performance at the Keller Theatre at 7:30 p.m. on Jan. 10.
The performance will take place on Jan. 24 at 7:30 p.m. in the Keller Theatre on the Washington and Lee University campus.
The concert is free and open to the public, and no tickets are required.
The Antioch Chamber is one of the most highly regarded chamber choral groups in the United States. 
Both events are free and open to the public; no tickets are required.
The event is free and open to the public and tickets are free, but required.
 The show runs Oct. 25-27 at 7:30 p.m., and Oct. 28 at 2 p.m. in Keller Theatre on the W&L campus.
Jobarteh is the first female virtuoso player of the kora, a 21-string African harp. 
Join members of the W&L choral program for a Parents and Family Weekend choral concert on Sept. 28, at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall.
A Washington and Lee University faculty recital will present “From the Salon to the Dance Hall,” a concert of works by Schumann, Brahms and Astor Piazzolla.
Take a peek behind the Lenfest curtain for 2018-19.