Jonathan Gingerich will deliver the keynote address at the virtual conference on Feb. 17.
The Human Library, a collaboration between the Mudd Center for Ethics and Leyburn Library, brought the W&L community together in conversation.
Chang, an urban artist and designer, will give a lecture on Feb. 19 at 5 p.m.
Cleckley, assistant professor of architecture and design at the University of Virginia, will give a lecture on Feb. 1 at 5 p.m.
Wei, a stage combat instructor, will host a workshop on Jan. 30 at 5 p.m.
The W&L community is invited to participate in the public art project, on view in Leyburn Library beginning Jan. 11.
The associate professor of art history will serve as the Mudd Center Director for three years beginning July 1, 2024.
Hendren, a professor at Northeastern University, will give a lecture on Nov. 9 at 5 p.m.
Jennifer Blumenthal-Barby, a professor at Baylor College of Medicine, will give a lecture on Oct. 26 at 5 p.m.
George Aye, co-founder and director of innovation at Greater Good Studio, will give a lecture on Oct. 9 at 5 p.m.
“Ethics of Design” kicks off Sept. 21 with a keynote address by MIT Professor Danielle Wood.
The virtual conference on March 4 will feature students from across the country.
Céline Leboeuf, an associate professor of philosophy at Florida International University, will give a public lecture in Hillel 101 on March 9 at 4 p.m.
Terrence Johnson, professor of African American religious studies at Harvard University, will discuss his latest book on March 1.
The playwright will host a screening of his play “Citizen James” and a playwriting workshop Feb. 14-15.
John Lysaker, a professor of philosophy at Emory University, will give a lecture on Jan. 30 at 5 p.m.
Mueller will give a public lecture in Northen Auditorium on Nov. 9 at 5 p.m.
Oscar Jerome Stewart, an assistant professor of management at the College of Charleston, will lecture on Nov. 3 at 5 p.m.
Helen Y. Weng, a clinical psychologist, neuroscientist and research associate at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) Osher Center for Integrative Health, will give a lecture on Sept. 22 at 5 p.m.
The title of Murdock’s talk is “Paying attention: Habits of Mind and Psychological Well-being.”
“Beneficence: Practicing an Ethics of Care” kicks off Sept. 15 with a keynote address by Professor Karen Stohr.
Neeru Paharia, associate professor at Georgetown University’s McDonough School of Business, will give a public lecture on March 9 at 5 p.m. at W&L.
The large-scale community artwork created as part of a Mudd Center program will be on view in Wilson Hall's Lykes Atrium through Feb. 9. 
Chantal Bilodeau, the founder and artistic director of The Arctic Cycle, will give a lecture on Nov. 11 at 5 p.m. 
Cobb, a staff writer for The New Yorker, will give a lecture at W&L on Oct. 7.
Katrina Forrester will give a virtual lecture on March 25 at 5 p.m. as part of W&L’s Mudd Center for Ethics series.
Felix Kwame Yeboah will give a virtual lecture on March 15 at 5 p.m. as part of W&L’s Mudd Center for Ethics series.
Mudd Postdoctoral Ethics Fellow Jeremy Weissman recently published a textbook titled "The Crowdsourced Panopticon: Conformity and Control on Social Media."
Assistant Professor Erin Taylor and Dr. Ralph Caldroney’s public discussion, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Ethical Issues in the Context of Covid-19."
Dr. Jonathan Wortham '04 is the outbreak investigations team leader in the Division of Tuberculosis Elimination at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Elizabeth Kolbert, a staff writer for The New Yorker, will give a virtual lecture on Oct. 29 at 5 p.m. 
Slaughter's lecture, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Renewing the Promise of America: Looking Back to Move Forward."
Rice's lecture, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Cultural Norms and the Export of the W&L Honor System."
“Global Ethics in the 21st Century: Opportunities and Challenges,” a collaboration between the Mudd Center for Ethics and the Center for International Education, kicks off Sept. 24 with a keynote address by former U.S. ambassador and Sewanee University President Reuben E. Brigety.
Franks, a professor of law at the University of Miami School of Law, will discuss the topic of her 2019 book, “The Cult of the Constitution: Our Deadly Devotion to Guns and Free Speech.”
The conference is titled Ethics and Technology: Surveillance, Civil Rights, and Cyber-Security.
The conference is free and open to the public.
Their talk is titled "The New Appendage: Cellphones in Cognitive and Behavioral Context."
Franklin Foer, a national correspondent for The Atlantic and a fellow at the New American Foundation, will give a public lecture at W&L.
Eubanks' talk is titled "The Shakedown State: Digital Debt, Economic Inequality and Automation in Public Services."
Arkin is a roboticist and roboethicist.
Smith’s talk is titled “An Ethical Framework for a God-Like Intellect.”
The talk is free and open to the public.
Johnston’s talk is titled “The Good Parent in an Age of Gene Editing: How Novel Genetic Technologies Challenge Parental Responsibility.” 
Luban’s lecture, which is titled "The Ethics of Professional Identities in Law and War,” will explore facets of professional identity.
Studying Arabic in Jordan and Lebanon has given Sierra Terrana '20 a new outlook on Islam and the Middle East—one that she hopes to parlay into a legal career.
Rebecca M. Jordan-Young, a sociomedical scientist, is the fourth speaker in the 2017-18 “Ethics of Identity” series.
Vogel's talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “The Art of Tolerance.”
The title of Foeman's lecture is "DNA and Identity: Changing the Conversation About Who We Are."
Appiah will speak on “The Ethics of Identity: The Injuries of Class.” 
After taking a course at Augusta Correctional Center, two W&L juniors helped to organize an exhibition at the university featuring artwork by artists who are incarcerated. The exhibit is entitled “Unfreedom of Expression.” 
Her talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “An Untold Story of Black Intellectuals and Egyptology.”
Wodak will speak on “Fake News and Echo Chambers.”
The title of her talk is “Epistemic Equality as a Condition of Well-Functioning Blame.”
Over the years, her reporting from disadvantaged communities in the United States and abroad has been awarded a Pulitzer Prize, a MacArthur Genius Grant and a National Magazine Award for Feature Writing.
Parks is the eighth speaker in the 2017–18 Equality and Difference series, sponsored by the W&L's Mudd Center for Ethics.
The title of his talk is “Equality and the Fourth Amendment.”
Laura I. Gómez, founder and CEO of venture-backed startup Atipica, Inc., is the sixth speaker in the 2017-18 Equality and Difference series.
Scanlon will speak on “Further Reflections on Tolerance (and Some Implications for Immigration).”
The event will feature a talk from Charlie Schmidt, a public policy associate at the America Civil Liberties Union of Virginia.
Woodzicka's talk is titled “Are All Jokes Created Equal? Differential Effects of Group-Based Disparagement Humor.”
Zachary Taylor '17 and Austin Piatt '17 believe leadership, collaboration and responsibility are the keys to a successful conference.
Robert Reich, professor of political science at Stanford University, will give a lecture on “Repugnant to the Whole Idea of a Democratic Society?: On the Role of Philanthropic Foundations.”
Sahar Akhtar, assistant professor in the department of philosophy at U.Va., will speak on "Why Religious and Racial Immigration Bans are Wrong."
Deborah G. Johnson, the Olsson Professor of Applied Ethics and Emeritus, Science, Technology and Society Program at U.Va., will discuss the question, “Does Engineering Need a Code of Ethics?”
University of Maryland professor Jennifer Golbeck will speak on “Footprints in the Digital Dust: How Your Online Behavior Says More Than You Think.”
In an interview with the Christian Science Monitor, Colón points to the key questions that must be asked when determining if the graphic nature of a photograph outweighs its journalistic importance.
MK Asante, bestselling author, award-winning filmmaker, rapper and professor, will give the Oct. 15 keynote address for the annual Bonner Congress, held this year at Washington and Lee University. The lecture will be at 9 a.m. in Stackhouse Theater and is free and open to the public.
Peter Singer, the Ira W. DeCamp Professor of Bioethics at Princeton University and a Laureate Professor at the Centre for Applied Philosophy and Public Ethics at the University of Melbourne, is the keynote speaker for the 2016–17 Markets and Morals series, sponsored by the Roger Mudd Center for Ethics at W&L
Susan James, professor of philosophy at Birkbeck College in London, will give a lecture at Washington and Lee University on April 7 at 5 p.m. in Huntley Hall 221.
Quentin Skinner, the Barber Beaumont Professor of the Humanities at Queen Mary University of London and an intellectual historian, will give two lectures at Washington and Lee University on April 4 and April 6.  W&L’s Mudd Center is sponsoring both talks.
The 2016 Mudd Undergraduate Ethics Conference, with keynote address by Matthew Talbert, associate professor of philosophy, West Virginia University (WVU), will be March 5 from 12:45–4:10 p.m. and March 6 from 9 a.m.–12:10 p.m. in the Hillel House, room 101.
Carl Bernstein, investigative journalist and author, will deliver the keynote address at Washington and Lee University’s Institute for Honor Symposium “The Press and the Presidency: The Battle for Public Opinion in War, Peace and the Digital Age” on March 18 at 4:15 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
Dale Jamieson, professor of environmental studies and philosophy at New York University (N.Y.U.), will lecture at Washington and Lee University on March 17 at 5 p.m. in the Hillel House, room 101.
To kick off Washington and Lee University’s 2016 Mock Convention, The Roger Mudd Center for Ethics at W&L will host a debate on “The Ethics of Citizenship” on Feb. 11 at 5 p.m. in Lee Chapel. Mock Con will be Feb. 12–13.
Claudia Rankine, the Aerol Arnold Chair of English at the University of Southern California, will lecture at Washington and Lee University on Jan. 20, 2016, at 4:30 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater, Elrod Commons.
Philip Fisher, the Felice Crowl Reid Professor of English at Harvard University, will lecture as part of the Questioning Passion series at Washington and Lee University on Nov. 12 at 4:30 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater, Elrod Commons.
Joseph Carens, professor of political science at the University of Toronto, will lecture at Washington and Lee University on Nov. 6 at 4:30 p.m. in the Stackhouse Theater, Elrod Commons.
Seth Michelson, an assistant professor of Spanish at Washington and Lee University, will give a poetry reading on the Ethics of Citizenship on Oct. 26 from 12:15–1:20 p.m. in Hillel Multipurpose Room.
Melissa S. Lane, the Class of 1943 Professor of Politics at Princeton University, will lecture at Washington and Lee University on Oct. 8 at 5 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library. The event is free and open to the public.
Danielle S. Allen, professor of government and director of the Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics at Harvard University, is the first speaker in the 2015–16 Ethics of Citizen series, sponsored by the Roger Mudd Center for Ethics at Washington and Lee University.
The Roger Mudd Center for Ethics at Washington and Lee University will examine “The Ethics of Citizenship” during its 2015­–2016 lecture and conference series.
Larry McDonald, a vice president at Lehman Brothers in the years leading up to its collapse, will give a talk, “21st Century Wall Street: Is It Different This Time?&rdquo; at 5 p.m. on Thurs., May 14 in Huntley Hall 327 on Washington and Lee University&rsquo;s campus. The event is free and open to the public. [&hellip;]
A new art exhibition in Washington and Lee University's Staniar Gallery, "The Strangest Fruit," will feature the work of Vincent Valdez, a widely recognized Texas-based artist. The exhibition will feature his 2013 series of large-scale oil on canvas paintings inspired by the little-known history of the many Mexicans and Mexican Americans lynched in the U.S. Southwest between 1848 and 1928.
Sheri Fink, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and author who has reported on health care crises around the world, will deliver this year's Fishback Visiting Writer lecture at Washington and Lee University on March 30 at 5 p.m. in the Stackhouse Theater in Elrod Commons.
James E. Baker, chief judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, will give a talk at Washington and Lee University at 4 p.m. on March 31. The talk will take place in Classroom A at W&L's School of Law.
Hina Shamsi, director of the ACLU's National Security Project, will be the Friday luncheon keynote speaker at a symposium on the 50th Anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and The Voting Rights Act of 1965: An Interdisciplinary Dialogue on Feb. 19-20 at the Millhiser Moot Court Room in the Washington and Lee School of Law.
Washington and Lee University won its sixth VFIC Ethics Bowl championship Feb. 9, when its four-member student team successfully devised and presented solutions to ethical dilemmas affecting hypothetical families.
Four Washington and Lee students will compete in the Virginia Foundation for Independent Colleges' 16th annual statewide collegiate Ethics Bowl, sponsored by Wells Fargo, February 8-9, at Marymount University in Arlington.
Robert A. Strong, the William Lyne Wilson Professor of Politics at Washington and Lee University, will give a lecture at W&L on Thursday, Feb. 5, at 5:00 p.m. in Huntley 327. The title of the talk, which is free and open to the public, is "Politics and Principle: Jimmy Carter in the Civil Rights Era." Strong's talk is part of the 2014-2015: Race and Justice in America and is sponsored by W&L's Roger Mudd Center for Ethics. F
Roger H. Mudd, a 1950 graduate of Washington and Lee University and an award-winning journalist, received the Award for Individual Philanthropy from the Council of Independent Colleges (CIC) at its annual awards banquet Jan. 6 in San Diego, California.
Roslyn McCallister Brock, chairman of the national board of directors for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), will highlight a series of lectures, panel discussions and performances as Washington and Lee holds its annual observance of Martin Luther King Jr. Day this month.
Tommie Shelby, professor of African and African American studies and professor of philosophy at Harvard University, will give a lecture at Washington and Lee University on Wednesday, Jan. 21, at 4:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium, Leyburn Library.
Dr. Irene SanPietro, assistant dean of students at Columbia University, will give a talk on "Charity and the Creation of the Church" at Washington and Lee University on Friday, Dec. 5, at 4 p.m. in Huntley Hall 327, Williams School.
Ingrid Ciprian-Matthews, vice president of CBS News, will give the keynote address at the 58th Institute in Ethics in Journalism at Washington and Lee University on Friday, Nov. 14, at 5:30 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater, Elrod Commons.
Phillip A. Goff, associate professor of social psychology at the University of California, Los Angeles (U.C.L.A.), will be the keynote speaker at the Implicit Bias Mini-Conference at Washington and Lee University on Thursday, Nov. 6, at 4:30 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater, Elrod Commons.
Jesmyn Ward, the Paul and Debra Gibbons Professor of Creative Writing at Tulane University, will give a public talk at Washington and Lee University on Wednesday, Nov. 12, at 4:30 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater, Elrod Center.
Author and scholar Martha Nussbaum, the Ernst Freund Distinguished Service Professor of Law and Ethics at the University of Chicago, will give a public talk at Washington and Lee University on Wednesday, Oct. 22, at 4:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
Charles Ogletree, the Jesse Climenko Professor of Law at Harvard University, will give the Mudd Distinguished Lecture in Ethics for 2014-2015 at Washington and Lee University. Ogletree's talk will be Wednesday, Oct. 1, at 4:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
Ann Morning, associate professor of sociology at New York University, will give a lecture at Washington and Lee University on Monday, Sept. 22, at 4:30 p.m. in Stackhouse Theater, Elrod Commons.