The Human Library, a collaboration between the Mudd Center for Ethics and Leyburn Library, brought the W&L community together in conversation.
Wei, a stage combat instructor, will host a workshop on Jan. 30 at 5 p.m.
The W&L community is invited to participate in the public art project, on view in Leyburn Library beginning Jan. 11.
Hendren, a professor at Northeastern University, will give a lecture on Nov. 9 at 5 p.m.
Jennifer Blumenthal-Barby, a professor at Baylor College of Medicine, will give a lecture on Oct. 26 at 5 p.m.
George Aye, co-founder and director of innovation at Greater Good Studio, will give a lecture on Oct. 9 at 5 p.m.
“Ethics of Design” kicks off Sept. 21 with a keynote address by MIT Professor Danielle Wood.
The virtual conference on March 4 will feature students from across the country.
Céline Leboeuf, an associate professor of philosophy at Florida International University, will give a public lecture in Hillel 101 on March 9 at 4 p.m.
“Beneficence: Practicing an Ethics of Care” kicks off Sept. 15 with a keynote address by Professor Karen Stohr.
Andrew Chignell, a professor at Princeton University, will give a lecture on Oct. 28 at 5 p.m. 
Cobb, a staff writer for The New Yorker, will give a lecture at W&L on Oct. 7.
"Daily Ethics: How Individual Choices and Habits Express Our Values and Shape Our World” kicks off Sept. 27 with a keynote address by Professor of Philosophy Cheshire Calhoun.
De León will give a virtual lecture on May 4 at 5 p.m. as part of W&L's Mudd Center for Ethics series.
The two-day virtual conference will begin March 6 and feature students located across the country.
Valerie Hudson, George H.W. Bush Chair and professor of international affairs at Texas A&M University, will deliver a virtual lecture on Feb. 15 at 5 p.m. as part of W&L’s Mudd Center for Ethics series.
Assistant Professor Erin Taylor and Dr. Ralph Caldroney’s public discussion, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Ethical Issues in the Context of Covid-19."
Dr. Jonathan Wortham '04 is the outbreak investigations team leader in the Division of Tuberculosis Elimination at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Elizabeth Kolbert, a staff writer for The New Yorker, will give a virtual lecture on Oct. 29 at 5 p.m. 
Slaughter's lecture, which is open to the public to view online, is titled "Renewing the Promise of America: Looking Back to Move Forward."
The conference is free and open to the public.
Franklin Foer, a national correspondent for The Atlantic and a fellow at the New American Foundation, will give a public lecture at W&L.
Eubanks' talk is titled "The Shakedown State: Digital Debt, Economic Inequality and Automation in Public Services."
Smith’s talk is titled “An Ethical Framework for a God-Like Intellect.”
Johnston’s talk is titled “The Good Parent in an Age of Gene Editing: How Novel Genetic Technologies Challenge Parental Responsibility.” 
Luban’s lecture, which is titled "The Ethics of Professional Identities in Law and War,” will explore facets of professional identity.
Rebecca M. Jordan-Young, a sociomedical scientist, is the fourth speaker in the 2017-18 “Ethics of Identity” series.
Vogel's talk, which is free and open to the public, is titled “The Art of Tolerance.”
The title of Foeman's lecture is "DNA and Identity: Changing the Conversation About Who We Are."
Appiah will speak on “The Ethics of Identity: The Injuries of Class.” 
After taking a course at Augusta Correctional Center, two W&L juniors helped to organize an exhibition at the university featuring artwork by artists who are incarcerated. The exhibit is entitled “Unfreedom of Expression.” 
Wodak will speak on “Fake News and Echo Chambers.”
Over the years, her reporting from disadvantaged communities in the United States and abroad has been awarded a Pulitzer Prize, a MacArthur Genius Grant and a National Magazine Award for Feature Writing.
The title of his talk is “Equality and the Fourth Amendment.”
Laura I. Gómez, founder and CEO of venture-backed startup Atipica, Inc., is the sixth speaker in the 2017-18 Equality and Difference series.
Scanlon will speak on “Further Reflections on Tolerance (and Some Implications for Immigration).”
Zachary Taylor '17 and Austin Piatt '17 believe leadership, collaboration and responsibility are the keys to a successful conference.