W&L will celebrate the global event on April 13 in the McCarthy Gallery.
The art specialist’s talk will be held on March 25 at 5:30 p.m.
The Museums at W&L invite the public to explore its exhibitions and collections with select programming through May.
“Mohammad Omer Khalil: Musings,” co-curated by four Washington and Lee students as part of a seminar course in museum studies, will be on display in the Watson Galleries Sept. 28, 2023 through June 1, 2024.
The Museums at W&L invite the public to their opening reception for “Musings” on Sept. 28 at 6:30 p.m.
Washington and Lee’s Museum Artist-in-Residence Program welcomed photographer Stephanie Shih to campus in May to create new work based on the Museums’ art collection.
“OPEN FLOWERS BEAR FRUIT” opens May 1 in the McCarthy Gallery in Holekamp Hall.
W&L will celebrate the global event on April 15 from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the Reeves Museum of Ceramics.
“We Love Life Whenever We Can” will be on display at W&L’s Leyburn Library April 1 through Dec. 8, 2023.
The Museums at W&L invites visitors to reflect on “Born of Fire: Contemporary Japanese Women Ceramic Artists,” on display through April 29.
W&L’s most recent museum exhibition, “Mother Clay: The Pottery of Three Pueblo Women,” brought new artists into the university’s collection and connected the campus community in unexpected ways. 
This exhibit is free and open to the public, with a scheduled reception and lecture by curator and scholar Jacqueline Chao on March 8 at 5 p.m.
Ferguson’s sessions on March 10 and 11 are part of Winter Term programming at the Museums at W&L.
CAP helps museums improve the care of their collections by providing support for a general conservation assessment of the museum’s objects and buildings.
Terrence Johnson, professor of African American religious studies at Harvard University, will discuss his latest book on March 1.
Two new ceramics exhibits, which spotlight women artists, open to the public Feb. 1.
Four Washington and Lee alumni were honored on Friday, Oct. 21, during a ceremony dedicating the installation of three plaques on the university’s Memorial Gateway.
The Museums at W&L invite the public to their opening reception for "Museum Menageries" on Sept. 15 at 6 p.m.
W&L will celebrate the international movement on April 2 from noon to 2 p.m. in Watson Gallery on the W&L campus. 
The Museums are celebrating Black History Month with an exhibition of works by artist Sharon Norwood, who questions historical constructed identity and explores the intersection of race and beauty.
The University Chapel and Galleries recently opened an exhibition titled "Setting the Stage: A Glimpse Inside 150 Years of the University Chapel Auditorium."
Isra El-Beshir, associate director of museums, is helping develop, coordinate and execute the strategic plan for the Museums of W&L. 
The exhibit of paintings by Evelyn Dawson, which includes student reflections and a student-curated playlist, is part of Museums at W&L's new Mindfulness Initiative and the 20th anniversary of the Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Program. 
Dr. Guelzo will deliver this year’s lecture, “The Mystery of Robert E. Lee,” virtually.
A pair of Bijin, or beautiful women, made in Arita, Japan, between 1690 and 1720 are the first of their kind in the Reeves Museum of Ceramics at W&L.
A generous donation of art last year from Rick Kramer '69 includes three works by Sam Gilliam, one of the most significant living artists of our time.
A new gift to the Reeves Museum of Ceramics documents how one artist is responding to the COVID-19 pandemic.
“To See Color First,” the first comprehensive study of Louise Herreshoff Eaton’s bold and expressive watercolors, opens April 27 as a virtual exhibition.
This plate, a recent gift to W&L's Reeves Museum of Ceramics from local collectors Joan and Jay Crawford, provides a window into Chinese culture and the material lives of one of Virginia’s most prestigious families.  
For anyone participating in online learning during this time, there are several resources available through the museums that can help enrich the virtual classroom experience.
Lynn Rainville was interviewed for a recent WUSF News article titled “Anthropologist: Building Over African American Cemeteries Not Just A Southern Problem.”
After conservation next year, the 154-year-old Stieff piano inside Lee House will be playable once more.
Museums at Washington and Lee will take part in Lexington's Museum Week and host Poinsettias at the Chapel during December.
As Native American Heritage Month kicks off, University Collections of Art and History invites you to see artwork by Native American artists and featuring Native American people and cultures.
A jar in the Reeves Collection tells the story of an African-American craftsman in Antebellum America.
On March 1, W&L’s University Collections of Art and History will open its newest exhibit, "Breaking the Chains: Ceramics and the Abolition Movement."
University Collections of Art and History recently purchased prints by iconic American artists Thomas Hart Benton and James Abbott McNeill Whistler, and they are already being incorporated into courses in art and art history.