By Erica TurmanMarch 8, 2022
Tanajia Moye-Green ’23 will attend the Public Policy and International Affairs (PPIA) Junior Summer Institute Fellowship at Princeton University’s Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs during the summer of 2022. At W&L, Moye-Green is majoring in sociology and anthropology and minoring in data science and poverty studies.
The PPIA fellowship program helps students achieve a master’s or joint degree, typically in public policy, public administration, international affairs or a related field.
“The day that I received the news, I felt elated and shocked because the PPIA Junior Summer Institute was my first choice among all of the options,” said Moye-Green. “I am extremely pleased that all my efforts have paid off. I am also a lot more hopeful about what my career will look like after W&L. This program will prepare me for graduate school and a career in public service, which I am so grateful for because I am not too sure about what should be my next steps.”
The PPIA Junior Summer Institute will strengthen Moye-Green’s quantitative, analytic and communication skills. While at Princeton, she will learn more about policy analysis, statistics and economics. Moye-Green credits one of W&L’s past PPIA recipients, Bo Garfinkel ’21, for encouraging her to apply for the opportunity.
“One of the best things about being a sociology and anthropology major at W&L is just how eager everyone is to share news about different programs and scholarships. I had a couple of classes with Bo before she graduated,” said Moye-Green. “While I didn’t get the chance to interact with her as I had hoped because of the pandemic, we did have a conversation one day where she encouraged me to apply for the Summer Institute Fellowship. I doubt she remembers this very brief interaction, but it has been the driving force behind me believing in myself enough to apply.”
Moye-Green also credits her advisor, Jon Eastwood, professor of sociology, for encouraging her in her studies.
“Professor Eastwood has pushed me to believe in my abilities and apply for every possible opportunity,” said Moye-Green.
In addition to her studies, Moye-Green cultivates her technological skills by working at the ITS Helpdesk on campus and in the university’s Global Discovery Lab. She is a board member for the Community Anti-Racism Effort organization and serves as a peer mentor in the Community-Based Learning 100 course on local Black history. Moye-Green also applies herself outside of campus as an Appalachian Adventure trip leader and an active member of the Outing Club.
If you know a W&L student who has done great, accolade-worthy things, tell us about them! Nominate them for an accolade.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.