Our program features
Our students do some amazing things - both inside and outside the classroom.
Loading...

 More Shepherd Profiles

Academic CuriosityInclusive CommunityReal Opportunity for All
Welcome to Shepherd


 Discover More


Students weave together poverty-related courses across campus (economics, education, law, philosophy, politics, sociology, and more) and hands-on service and internship experiences across the county, the country, and the world to supplement their major areas of study. Those pursuing a minor in poverty studies also undertake capstone research projects that connect their concerns about poverty and inequality with their future civic and professional lives.
For over 20 years, Shepherd has supported student leadership and service opportunities in the local Rockbridge area and beyond. Understanding the causes, consequences, and most promising remedies of poverty and inequality requires direct collaboration with community partners. Students participate in and lead several Shepherd service initiatives.
There are as many paths through Shepherd as there are students. We prepare participating students-whatever their majors or future plans-for life-long collaboration with communities to address the causes and consequences of poverty. In coursework, community engagement, and one-on-one advising, students discover how they can best promote a world of real opportunity for all through their civic and professional lives. Come discover your path.
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement