W&L prepares students to meet the world’s challenges as ethical leaders, visionary thinkers and compassionate citizens.
Some decide to attend for its small size and personal attention; others will say it’s our academic reputation, scenic location or engaged community. Whatever their reason, once here, students find a place to grow intellectually, unlock opportunities and prepare for the future. W&L students hold each other to the highest standard of integrity, united by the student-run honor system. And when they graduate, they do so as critical thinkers with a network of support, lifelong friendships and a degree that opens doors.
“I have achieved so much in my short time at W&L, and I know the sky is the limit when it comes to the future!”
The W&L Story

Fast
Facts

As a top-tier liberal arts university, W&L is a place where students grow intellectually, unlock opportunities and prepare for their futures.
Campus Setting
How does a school become a home? How does a town become a community? In Lexington, it’s your first day in the Campus Kitchen, in a local coffee shop, on the river, or in a classroom. Lexington really is a remarkable place.

Situated on 325 acres in historic Lexington, Virginia (population 7,000), W&L is approximately two hours from Richmond, Virginia, and three hours from Washington, D.C. W&L is nestled in the Shenandoah Valley only minutes away from the Blue Ridge Parkway and the Appalachian Trail.
Enrollment
Full-time Undergraduate - 1,857
Law School - 378
Men - 49%
Women - 51%
Underrepresented - 19%
Countries - 41
U.S. States - 49

62% of students live on campus
150+ clubs and organizations
75% of students participate in service efforts
About 60% of students study abroad each year
Academic Profile
W&L is composed of two undergraduate divisions, the College and the Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics; and a graduate School of Law. W&L is the only leading liberal arts college to have nationally accredited programs in business and journalism, and one of the few offering an engineering program.

36 Majors and 41 Minors
Classes Taught by Faculty -  100%
Average Class Size - 15
Student-Faculty Ratio - 8:1
Graduation Rate - 4 years - 92%
Degrees - BA, BS, JD
Athletics
34% of W&L students compete on one of 24 varsity teams within the NCAA Division III ODAC Conference, not to mention those that compete through club and intramural teams.

Men’s Sports: Baseball, Basketball, Cross Country, Football, Golf, Lacrosse, Riding, Soccer, Swimming, Tennis, Track and Field, Wrestling

Women’s Sports: Basketball, Cross Country, Field Hockey, Golf, Lacrosse, Riding, Soccer, Swimming, Tennis, Track and Field, Volleyball

W&L has won the ODAC Commissioner’s Cup for overall athletic excellence for 25 of the past 27 years!
Outcomes
In their first year, students are assigned a Career Advisor to support them one-on-one. Advisors have focus areas, such as finance, government, law, consulting, health care and marketing, for industry-specific support, and they also help undecided students explore career paths and post-graduate options.

W&L is consistently named a top producer of Fulbright students in the U.S.

93% of graduates are employed or in graduate school within six months of graduation.

93% of graduates are accepted to law, medical, dental, veterinary, and other professional programs.
All Stories



W&L Student Performs at Havana Jazz Festival
A meeting with a Broadway legend allowed engineering major Zaria Daniels ’26 to take her vocal talents to Cuba.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Voices from the Generals
The Harte Center for Teaching and Learning is bringing student voices to a new podcast designed to share perspectives on transitioning to college life.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





An Extraordinary Combination
Laura Murambadoro ’26 brings varied interests, a collaborative leadership style and a passion for community engagement to W&L’s campus.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Alumni and Students Connect Through Choreography
The W&L Repertory Dance Company’s alumni-student dance performance in New York City’s Center for Performance Research returned after a four-year hiatus.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





VITA Program Returns
Washington and Lee students are applying their accounting skills in the community as part of the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance program. 


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Student Organization Spotlight: Remote Area Medical
Washington and Lee’s chapter of Remote Area Medical takes students to remote rural areas to provide medical services and gain valuable practical experience along the way.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Special Collections Exhibit Showcases Mock Convention Memories
Washington and Lee University’s Special Collections and Archives has been working with the 2024 Mock Convention to debut an exhibit showcasing extraordinary items from past conventions.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





W&L Student Consulting Group Makes Connections on Campus and in the Community
Students in the Williams School consulted on a number of projects including marketing, research and social media strategy for businesses and organizations.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Mock Con’s Presidential Gala Creates Convention Buzz
The 28th Mock Convention’s Presidential Gala on Nov. 12 offered the campus a glimpse of the upcoming excitement for the 2024 mock presidential convention.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





The Space to Be Brave
W&L’s recent staging of ‘Speech & Debate’ brought its cast, crew and audience an opportunity to engage with an innovative, collaborative approach to theater.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





W&L Students Curate Fall Art Exhibition
“Mohammad Omer Khalil: Musings,” co-curated by four Washington and Lee students as part of a seminar course in museum studies, will be on display in the Watson Galleries Sept. 28, 2023 through June 1, 2024.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            





Giving First-Year Students An Edge
Washington and Lee's Leading Edge program welcomed the Class of 2027 to campus with dynamic programs designed to build community.


                                                            Continue Reading
                                                            


In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement
© Copyright 2024 Washington & Lee