Your browser is not supported for this experience.We recommend using Chrome, Firefox, Edge, or Safari.
Got an adrenaline junkie on your hands? Give them an experience like no other through Virginia’s many zipline, canopy and ropes course tours. Whether you’re just starting out or a self-proclaimed expert, these adventure parks feature an exhilarating experience for those who are up to the challenge!
The Adventure Park at Sandy River Retreat is the largest and first of its kind in Central Virginia. Come aboard for 60 obstacles, including 20 ziplines!

Just minutes from downtown Williamsburg, Go Ape! Treetop Adventure and Treetop Journey is a 2-3 hour, self-guided treetop adventure where you'll explore the forest canopy via 5 ziplines and awesome suspended obstacles. Scramble up cargo nets, traverse rope bridges while 40-50 feet above the ground, swing like Tarzan and soar down ziplines!

Families can take to the air at Massanutten Resort. The Kids' Adventure Course, geared for ages 12 and under but also fun for adults, packs a challenge with its burma bridge, log crossing, swinging vine bridge, net traverse, and a 100-foot zipline. Check out the winter activities at Massanutten as well!
For thrill seekers, the Discovery Ridge Adventure Center at Wintergreen Resort packs in fun for the whole family. Outdoor activities include a high-flying bungee trampoline, miniature golf, a mechanical bull, a zipline, summer tubing and a 25-foot climbing tower. Children will love the resort’s inflatable playgrounds. Indoors you'll find wii, x-boxes, foosball and more!
The Canyon Rim Zipline is a one-of-a-kind adventure located in Break Interstate Park on the Virginia-Kentucky border. Spanning along the rim of the Russell Fork River Gorge, the zipline gives riders a birds-eye view and a glimpse of why the gorge is known as the “Grand Canyon of the South.”

Consisting of eleven ziplines, riders will experience the thrill of flying through the trees and sailing over open ski slopes on Bryce Resort’s Zipline Adventure. Fly high above the ground and see the entire resort as you work your way from the top of the mountain to the bottom.
901 E. Cary St.
Suite 900
Richmond, VA 23219
© 2024 Virginia Tourism Corporation
This site uses cookies to enhance the user experience and measure marketing activities. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. To find out more, please see our Privacy Policy.