By Emily InnesFebruary 20, 2024

The Washington and Lee University Singers present their “Tour Home” concert under the direction of Shane Lynch, professor of music and director of choral activities, on March 5 at 8 p.m. in Wilson Concert Hall in the Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts.
The concert is free, but tickets are required and available online. The event will also be streamed online at https://go.wlu.edu/livestream.
The University Singers is an award-winning ensemble and continues to be recognized as one of the region’s finest collegiate a capella choirs. They are an internationally competitive touring choir, performing a wide variety of works at major venues across the globe and serving as artistic ambassadors for W&L in concert series, music festivals, conventions and university outreach events.
The March 5 concert celebrates the ensemble’s return from a performance tour of the southern United States. The first set will feature choral masterpieces of the past and present, including works by Felix Mendelssohn, Josef Rheinberger, Ēriks Ešenvalds and Giachino Rossini. The second set will explore musical traditions from the South, with shape-note singing and various forms of gospel music. Following an intermission, the concert’s third set will feature compositions by living female American composers, including Rosephanye Powell, whose music was performed by the University Singers at Auburn University, where Powell is a professor. The University Singers will close the concert with some audience favorites, including “A Haitian Noel,” and end with W&L’s traditional “Shenandoah” by James Erb.
Order your tickets online today or call the Lenfest Center box office at 540-458-8000 for ticket information. Box office hours are Monday-Friday, 9 a.m.-4 p.m.
For a full list of this season’s performances, visit the Lenfest Center’s website.
The Lenfest Center for the Arts, home of the Department of Theater, Dance, and Film Studies and the Department of Music and Department of Art and Art History is a multi-use facility designed and equipped to accommodate a broad spectrum of the performing arts, including theater, musical theater, opera and operetta, choral and band music, dance and performance art in one energizing complex.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.