Monticello is a big, beautiful, thought-provoking place. Leave time to explore it (most guests spend about 3.5 hours), and please arrive 30 minutes prior to your tour time.
Tours of the main house are a highlight of any visit to Monticello. But there’s much more to experience.
A visit starts at the David M. Rubenstein Visitor Center where you'll find exhibits on Jefferson and Monticello, an introductory film, a hands-on discovery room, food, shopping, and free parking for cars, buses and RVs.
Our visually-rich introductory film, “Thomas Jefferson’s World,” describes Monticello’s central importance to Jefferson’s life and work, his consequential accomplishments and core ideas about human liberty, and explores Jefferson’s paradox as a slave owner.
Explore the Wings of the House, including Monticello’s kitchens, cellars, and slave dwellings. Here you will also find exhibits on the life of Sally Hemings and the Getting Word oral history project featuring descendants of Monticello’s enslaved community.
Explore Mulberry Row, where many enslaved individuals lived and worked, or take a guided Slavery at Monticello Tour (included with admission).
The grounds are spectacular. Enjoy them on your own or take one of our seasonal, guided Gardens and Grounds Tours (included with admission).
Visit Jefferson's gravestone in the Monticello Cemetery
Visit the Burial Ground for Enslaved People at Monticello, a final resting place for more than forty of Monticello’s enslaved community. Jefferson enslaved more than four hundred African Americans at Monticello.
Look for one-of-a-kind gifts at our Shops. The main Shop is in our visitor center, and there's a Farm Shop in the House's North Wing.
Refuel at the Monticello Farm Table café at the visitor center.
Jefferson Vineyards - complete your visit with a glass of wine at our vineyard.
Enjoy the paths, elevated walks and spectacular views of the Saunders-Monticello Trail, Central Virginia's most popular park. Free.
Check out our Do's and Don'ts when visiting Monticello and our Visiting Frequently Asked Questions.
Meet Thomas Jefferson (as portrayed by veteran historical actor-interpreter Bill Barker) in person, most Tuesdays through Saturdays during regularly scheduled programming.
Explore exhibitions on the building of Monticello, the operation of the plantation, and the legacy of the Declaration of Independence and enjoy our powerful introductory film.
Explore the exhibits under and around the main house, which focus on a variety of topics from cooking to travel to the legacy of slavery. And don't miss The Life of Sally Hemings exhibit in the South Wing.

				ADDRESS:
					931 Thomas Jefferson Parkway
					Charlottesville, VA 22902
				GENERAL INFORMATION: 
					(434) 984-9800