VMI produces leaders and individuals whose daily lives reflect the integrity, fairness, and appreciation for the value of hard work that is instilled at the Institute.
VMI: an undergraduate experience like no other. Since 1839, this historic military college has produced leaders of integrity and honor. The Institute is ranked #5 in the nation for return on investment by Money Magazine.
Cadets participate in a challenging four-year core curriculum of 14 nationally recognized majors in engineering, the sciences, and the humanities, with an array of enrichment opportunities. The Institute boasts a student to teacher ratio of 10:1.
VMI boasts one of the leading Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) programs in the United States. The program challenges cadets to focus on strengthening both mind and body while pursuing ideals of discipline, honor, and respect. The Institute also offers one of only 14 Coast Guard Auxiliary University Programs in the nation.
VMI inspires and is committed to excellence. The Corps of Cadets is able to utilize the training offered by a 24/7 military environment and apply a mindset of overcoming adversity towards their academic and athletic goals, and for those who commission, towards exemplary military service.
VMI believes that all cadets are athletes and all athletes are cadets. Athletics at VMI form an integral part of the mission to develop the whole person. The Keydets participate in NCAA Division I. 
VMI is deeply connected to its alumni and the surrounding Lexington community. There are a number of opportunities across post for the public to support the Institute's mission and cadets, seeing first-hand what makes VMI no ordinary college.
This URL doesn’t exist, but hopefully we can help you find what you’re looking for elsewhere on VMI.edu:
We also recommend using our site search and the top-level menu. Some popular sections of the site include: News, Calendar, Academics, and Athletics.
 
 
 

VIRGINIA MILITARY INSTITUTELexington, Virginia 24450General Information: (540) 464-7230 Admissions: admissions@vmi.edu 
 
© Virginia Military Institute  Technical questions? Contact the web team.