By Law CommunicationsMarch 18, 2024
William Toles, a 1992 graduate of the College and a 1995 graduate of the School of Law, was recently named a fellow of the American College of Trial Lawyers, one of the premier legal associations in North America.
The College is an invitation-only fellowship of exceptional trial lawyers of diverse backgrounds from both the United States and Canada. Members are chosen though their demonstration of the very highest standards of trial advocacy, ethical conduct, integrity, professionalism, and collegiality. Membership in the College cannot exceed one percent of the total lawyer population of any state or province.
A member of the W&L Board of Trustees since 2016, Toles is a Shareholder at Munsch Hardt in Dallas. He has successfully tried more than 70 civil jury trials to verdict. In addition, his trial experience throughout Texas includes tort litigation, ranging from negligence and transportation matters to more complex premises liability, Deceptive Trade Practices Act (DTPA), commercial and contractual dispute litigation. He has been selected by D Magazine as one of the “Best Lawyers in Dallas” since 2016.
On top of his thriving legal practice, Toles is a member of the American Board of Trial Advocates (ABOTA) National Executive Committee. He is also a member of the International Society of Barristers (ISOB). Memberships for ABOTA and ISOB are both by invitation only, and involve a rigorous screening process that takes into consideration each lawyer’s ability, experience, accomplishments and ethical standards as assessed by trial lawyers and judges.
In addition to his service on the W&L Board, Toles is a class agent for his law school class and a member of the advisory council for the Dallas alumni chapter. He is a former member of the Washington and Lee Alumni Board, former President of the Law Council, and former Chair of the Washington and Lee Law Annual Fund.
If you know any W&L alumni who would be great profile subjects, tell us about them! Nominate them for a web profile.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.