By Erica TurmanFebruary 16, 2018
Washington and Lee University’s Leyburn Library will host an author talk featuring Jenefer Davies, associate professor of dance, on Feb. 28 at 5 p.m. in the Book Nook on the library’s main floor.
Davies will talk about her recent book, “Aerial Dance: A Guide to Dance with Rope and Harness.” The event is free and open to the public, and refreshments will be provided.
Davies’ book provides an introduction for the beginning aerialist. It covers rigging, equipment, advice on optimal conditioning and a step-by-step guide to technique. A companion website hosts videos that correspond with the technique and phrasing in the book.
“I wrote this book because aerial dance is such a new phenomenon that a codified technique didn’t exist,” Davies said. “Over the course of my 15 years of exploring, experimenting and teaching rope and harness, I created a curriculum for my students that combined the artistry and physicality of aerial dance with optimal conditioning and safety components.”
In addition to teaching dance at W&L, Davies is also director of the dance program and artistic director of the W&L Repertory Dance Company.
“This book has special ties to W&L because most of the photos were shot by university photographer Kevin Remington, and it features images and video – from a companion website – of W&L aerial students and performances from the last 10 years,” Davies said.
This talk is part of The Anne and Edgar Basse Jr. Author Talk Series, presented by the University Library. This series showcases the creative and scholarly works produced by members of the Washington and Lee University community. During each installment of this series, held within Leyburn Library, a W&L author speaks about a recently published monographic work, fields audience questions, and is available to sign copies of the discussed book.
The fund was created in 1988 to support the varied activities of the university’s Special Collections and Archives, including authorial book signings.
SaveSave
If you know any W&L faculty who would be great profile subjects, tell us about them! Nominate them for a web profile.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.