By Erica TurmanJanuary 7, 2022

Washington and Lee University will celebrate the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.’s life and legacy this year with a week of lectures and events beginning Jan. 16. The events are free and open to the public.
On Jan. 17, the W&L Chanoyu Tea Society will kick off celebrations with its annual Martin Luther King Day tea ceremony. The society will serve sweets and matcha tea in the W&L Tea Room to honor King and his legacy. There will be three seatings: 1 p.m., 1:45 p.m. and 2:30 p.m. This event is open to the public, but attendance is limited to 20 people per seating. Reserve your seat online here.
Other events of the week include a children’s event in honor of King’s birthday on Jan. 19 from 5 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Interested participants are encouraged to stop by the Sydney Lewis Hall parking lot for a cupcake and gift bag.
The W&L Law School will also host MLK Reflections on Jan. 19 at 5:30 p.m. in the Moot Court Room in Sydney Lewis Hall. The event allows community members to reflect on the lessons of King’s life and work. Each year leaders are invited from the campus and the Lexington communities to participate in offering a brief commentary on their view of King’s legacy and what it has meant to the world.
The annual MLK Shabbat will take place on Jan. 21. W&L Hillel and the Class of 1994 Office of Inclusion and Engagement invite all members of the W&L and Lexington communities to join them for a Shabbat dinner and service honoring the life and legacy of King. The event is scheduled for 6 p.m. in the Hillel sanctuary. Seating is limited, so please register in advance here.
On Jan. 22 at 7 p.m., the African Society will host its first annual African Society Charity Benefit Showcase in Evans Hall, featuring a fashion show, step performance, DJ and more. Admission to the event is $10, and all proceeds will go to various trusted charities in Africa. Registration is required and can be accessed online here.
The centerpiece of the week’s celebrations will be a keynote address by Yusef Salaam on Jan. 23 at 7 p.m. in the Lenfest Center for the Arts on the W&L campus.
On Jan. 30 at 1 p.m., the Student Association for Black Unity (SABU) will host its Basketball Tournament on campus in Doremus Gym. This three-on-three tournament allows the community to come together for some friendly competition while raising money for charity. The cost to enter a team of three players is $30. SABU will accept registrations up to the day of the competition.
Check back in for more information about the keynote speaker and updates about all of the week’s events online at go.wlu.edu/MLK.
All individuals, including fully vaccinated ones, are expected to wear masks in public indoor spaces on the W&L campus.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.