By Peter JettonOctober 16, 2018
Dean Brant Hellwig has announced the appointment of Alex Zhang as Assistant Dean for Legal Information Services and Director of the Wilbur C. Hall Law Library at Washington and Lee School of Law.
Zhang joins W&L from Stanford Law Library, where she has served as Head of Public Services since December 2016. Before joining Stanford, she was a Senior Associate Librarian and Adjunct Professor of Law at the University of Michigan Law School, where she taught Advanced Legal Research, managed Michigan Law Library’s reference and information desk services, and developed the Library’s print and electronic legal materials specializing in non-U.S. jurisdictions.
“Our school will benefit not only from Alex’s experience and expertise, but also from her enthusiasm and generous spirit,” said Dean Hellwig. “We look forward to her joining our community in January.”
Zhang is an active member of the American Association of Law Libraries. She chaired the Asian American Law Librarian Caucus in 2015-2016 and is the Immediate Past Chair of AALL’s Foreign, Comparative, & International Law Special Interest Section. She is also a Board member of the Chinese-American Forum on Legal Information and Law Libraries.
“I am both honored and thrilled to be joining the Washington and Lee Law School,” said Zhang “It is an exciting time to be a law librarian, a law school administrator, and a legal research instructor. I look forward to working closely with a talented group of forward-thinking librarians, faculty, and staff to proactively fulfill the rapidly changing legal research and information needs of our faculty and students.”
Zhang’s research interests include public access to legal information, legal research methods and methodology, and Chinese law and research. Her articles have appeared in scholarly journals such as Legal Information Management, Law Library Journal, International Journal of Legal Information, and Chinese Journal of Comparative Law.
Zhang received her J.D. from University of Kansas Law School, MSI from University of Michigan School of Information, and MA in Philosophy from Tulane University. She is a member of the State Bar of New York.
If you know any W&L staff who would be great profile subjects, tell us about them! Nominate them for a web profile.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.