By Law CommunicationsMarch 28, 2023
Johanna Bond, Sydney and Frances Lewis Professor of Law at W&L Law, has been named as the next Dean of Rutgers Law School. Bond will assume her role at Rutgers on July 3, 2023.
Rutgers operates law schools in two locations—Camden, N.J. and Newark, N.J. Bond is the first dean to oversee both campuses since the law schools merged in 2015. Bond will oversee the largest public law school in the country.
Professor Bond previously served at W&L Law as the Associate Dean for Academic Affairs. She served on the Presidential Search Committee, the Provost Search Committee, the Law Dean Search Committee, and a number of other university-wide committees. Bond also served as the only law school representative on the President’s Strategic Planning Steering Committee and served as Chair of that Committee’s Sub-committee on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion.
An expert in international human rights law and gender and the law, Bond joined the W&L law faculty in 2008. She is the author of numerous articles and two books, including “Global Intersectionality and Contemporary Human Rights,” published by Oxford University Press in 2021. The University recognized Bond’s scholarly contributions with an endowed chair in 2017, the Lewis Prize for Excellence in Legal Scholarship in 2021, and the Ethan Allen Faculty Award for Scholarship also in 2021. Bond was twice selected as a Fulbright Scholar, first in 2001 and again in 2015. In 2001, her Fulbright award enabled her to travel to Uganda and Tanzania to conduct research that resulted in her edited book, “Voices of African Women: Women’s Rights in Ghana, Uganda, and Tanzania” (Carolina Academic Press, 2005).
Before coming to W&L, Professor Bond was an Associate Professor of Law at the University of Wyoming and a Visiting Associate Professor of Law at Georgetown University Law Center.  She also served as the Executive Director of the Women’s Law and Public Policy Fellowship Program, a non-profit organization housed at Georgetown.
If you know a W&L faculty member who has done great, accolade-worthy things, tell us about them! Nominate them for an accolade.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.