By Peter JettonAugust 24, 2020
Washington and Lee University School of Law welcomes several new teachers to the faculty this year.
Alan M. Trammell joins W&L Law as a permanent member of the faculty. Previously, Professor Trammell taught as an Assistant Professor at the University of Arkansas (Fayetteville). He has also served as an Associate-in-Law at Columbia Law School and a Visiting Assistant Professor at Brooklyn Law School, where the student body selected him as Professor of the Year in 2014.
Prof. Trammell teaches and writes primarily in the fields of civil procedure, federal courts, and conflict of laws. He is recognized as one of the leading authorities on nationwide injunctions and has been invited to present his research at numerous conferences and on podcasts. His scholarship has appeared in the Virginia Law Review, the Cornell Law Review, the Texas Law Review, and the Vanderbilt Law Review.
Professor Trammell earned his law degree from the University of Virginia where he was a Hardy Cross Dillard Scholar and served as Articles Development Editor of the Virginia Law Review. After graduation, he clerked for the Honorable Stephen F. Williams of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit and the Honorable Theodor Meron of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague (Netherlands). He then spent three years as a litigation associate at the firm now known as Kellogg, Hansen, Todd, Figel & Frederick PLLC in Washington, D.C.
Before law school, he received a bachelor’s degree from Wake Forest University and master’s degrees from the London School of Economics & Political Science and Oxford University, where he studied as a Marshall Scholar.
Matthew Shaw will serve as the Frances Lewis Law Center Scholar-in-Residence. He is visiting W&L Law from Vanderbilt University, where he is assistant professor of public policy and education and assistant professor of law.
Prof. Shaw joined the faculty of Vanderbilt’s Peabody College in fall 2016 after he completed his doctorate in education at Harvard University. Professor Shaw earned his law degree at Columbia Law School in 2005, after which he served for two years as a clerk for Chief Judge W. Louis Sands of the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Georgia.
Prof. Shaw practiced law in Atlanta at King & Spading and Schulten Ward & Turner before pursuing his Ed.D. at Harvard, where his dissertation, Shaping the DREAM: Law as Policy Defining Undocumented Students’ College Access, addressed several of his research interests, including federal law and education policy and the insularity of minority status. During his time as the Scholar-in-Residence, Prof. Shaw will be working on a law review article entitled “The Educational Equities of Plyler v. Doe.” As part of this research project, he will be utilizing the Powell Archives to examine Justice Powell’s education law jurisprudence.
Kathleen Claussen will serve as a visiting professor at W&L Law in the spring. Prof. Claussen is currently a member of the faculty at the University of Miami Law School.  Her teaching and scholarly interests include trade and investment law, dispute settlement and procedure, international contracts and issues in cross-border business transactions, national security including cybersecurity law, and federalism and conflict of laws.
Prof. Claussen’s work has appeared or is forthcoming in the print or online editions of the Yale Law Journal, the Stanford Law Review, the Minnesota Law Review, the Cardozo Law Review, the Yale Journal of International Law, the American Journal of International Law, and the Journal of International Economic Law, among others. In fall 2019, she was in-residence as a Senior Fellow at the Georgetown University Law Center Institute of International Economic Law. She has been a Brandon Research Fellow at the University of Cambridge’s Lauterpacht Centre for International Law; a visiting scholar at the University of Copenhagen’s Centre of Excellence for International Courts; a visiting researcher at the World Trade Institute; and an invited seminar leader at the George C. Marshall Center for Security Studies. In 2018, Prof. Claussen was one of eleven scholars selected to present research at the Melbourne/Nottingham/NYU Junior International Law Faculty Forum. Her work on cross-border ethical issues in international commercial arbitration was awarded the International Institute for Conflict Prevention and Resolution Paper Prize.
Prior to joining the Miami Law faculty in 2017, Prof. Claussen was Associate General Counsel at the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative in the Executive Office of the President. There, she represented the United States in trade dispute proceedings and served as a legal advisor for the United States in international trade negotiations. She also worked on economic security issues on behalf of USTR at the National Cyber Investigative Joint Task Force.
W&L Law is also pleased to welcome the following alumni, who are serving as adjunct faculty this year.
If you know any W&L faculty who would be great profile subjects, tell us about them! Nominate them for a web profile.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.