By Peter JettonSeptember 6, 2017
Washington and Lee is pleased to welcome three new faculty members this year.
Sarah Haan joins W&L as a tenured member of the faculty.  Professor Haan writes about corporate political speech and disclosure.  She will teach Close Business Arrangements, Publicly Held Businesses and Professional Responsibility.
Prof. Haan received a B.A. in History from Yale University and a law degree from Columbia Law School, where she was an articles editor of the Columbia Law Review.  Prior to joining legal academia, Prof. Haan worked in the litigation department at Davis Polk & Wardwell in New York and as a Teach for America teacher in Compton, California.  Prof. Haan is admitted to the bar of New York State, to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, and to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York.
Kristin Johnson is visiting W&L for the fall semester as the Lewis Law Center Scholar in Residence. In addition to pursuing her research interests, Professor Johnson will teach Securities Regulation. She is visiting from her home institution of Seton Hall Law School.
Prof. Johnson specializes in the area of financial markets regulation. She has presented her research on systemic risk, risk management, cyber risk regulation and financial markets regulation throughout the United States and abroad. Her scholarship appears in nationally recognized law journals including the Washington and Lee Law Review, the University of Illinois Law Review, the University of Washington Law Review, the University of Colorado Law Review, Southern Methodist University Law Review and the University of Michigan Law Review.
Prior to entering the legal academy, Prof. Johnson served as Assistant General Counsel and Vice President at JP Morgan and practiced law as a corporate associate. During her tenure in private practice at Simpson, Thatcher and Bartlett LLP’s New York and London offices, she represented issuers and underwriters in domestic and international debt and equity offerings, lenders and borrowers in banking and credit matters, and private equity firms and publicly traded companies in mergers and acquisitions. Prior to law school, she was an analyst at Goldman Sachs & Co.
Professor Johnson received her B.A., cum laude, from Georgetown University, and her J.D., from the University of Michigan Law School, where she served as Notes Editor of the Michigan Law Review and received the Clara Belfield and Henry Bates International Research Fellowship.
Hernandez Stroud, a 2015 graduate of W&L Law, returns to Lexington for a one-year appointment as a Visiting Assistant Professor. He will teach a seminar on civil rights, an advanced legal writing seminar, and a practicum course on statutory interpretation.
After graduating from W&L, Prof. Stroud served as a fellow at the Information Society Project at Yale Law School and as acting director of development and policy for the City of New Haven. He then clerked for a U.S. District Judge in the Northern District of Alabama. Following his term as a VAP at W&L, Prof. Stroud will take a  clerkship position with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit.
Stroud received his B.A. from the University of Alabama at Birmingham and a M.Sc. in Education Policy for the University of Pennsylvania. Before attending law school, he taught history and government in Philadelphia for Teach for America.
If you know any W&L faculty who would be great profile subjects, tell us about them! Nominate them for a web profile.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.