By W&L News OfficeSeptember 7, 2023

Post-grad plans: Postgraduate intern at Jackson Spalding
Industry: Public relations
Areas of study: Strategic communication
What will you be doing after graduation? 
After graduation, I will be joining Jackson Spalding in its Atlanta office to support its public relations practice.
How did your career plans evolve over the course of your time at W&L?
Coming into college, I knew I wanted to pursue a career in the communications industry after graduation but didn’t know which sector would interest me the most. I interned at a design-driven marketing firm the summer after my sophomore year. While I enjoyed my time at this firm, I realized that I was drawn to helping companies manage their reputations through strategic messaging, which led me to intern at a public relations firm the following summer. I loved working at a PR agency and am excited to continue my career in public relations.
How did Career Development support you and which resources did you find most helpful?
The CPD Office was instrumental in supporting me as I navigated my professional journey. Each career advisor is truly invested in helping students attain their goals and achieve success. I sought guidance from career advisers at every phase of my job search, whether it was in the initial stage of exploring different companies, or the final stage of preparing for an interview. I also found the alumni career panels to be very beneficial. They not only provided insight into the many different career paths within a specific industry but also allowed students to make invaluable connections with alumni.
Did you connect with alumni during your career development process?
The W&L alumni network was incredibly helpful to me as I navigated my job search. Whenever I reached out, they graciously made time to speak with me and went the extra mile to provide assistance in every way possible. In fact, I first learned of Jackson Spalding when Glen Jackson, a co-founder of the company and a W&L alum, spoke to students at a career panel. I’m so grateful for the unwavering support of W&L alumni.
If you know any W&L alumni who would be great profile subjects, tell us about them! Nominate them for a web profile.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.