By Kelsey GoodwinMarch 13, 2024

Wythe Whiting, professor of cognitive and behavioral science at Washington and Lee, joins Associate Director of Lifelong Learning Ruth Candler to discuss the complex connections between mental health, sleep, physical activity and cognitive functioning in the latest episode of  the“W&L After Class” podcast, a collaborative effort of Lifelong Learning, Alumni Engagement and the Office of Communications and Public Affairs.
In this month’s episode, Whiting discusses how modern technologies impact our ability to focus during daily tasks and how to navigate the vast social media landscape. The conversation, centered around Whiting’s research, explores the powerful influence our touchpoints with technology have on mental health and sheds light on the hidden dynamics that shape our online experiences.
“W&L After Class” entered its fifth season on Feb. 13. The first episode of the season features Rob Straughan, the Crawford Family Dean of the Williams School and professor of business administration, delving into Straughan’s journey at W&L, the evolution of the William School’s distinctive approach within a liberal arts curriculum and the exciting initiatives on the horizon, including the plans for the new Williams School building.
The “After Class” podcast series began in the spring of 2020. Each episode invites listeners to experience conversations with W&L’s expert faculty, giving listeners worldwide a chance to stroll the Colonnade in the comfort of their homes. W&L faculty members discuss their teaching, research and special interests. Previous topics include poetry, witches, cybersecurity, theater and free speech. Each podcast episode is hosted by Candler.
Recent episodes from the fourth season include a conversation with Kish Parella, Class of 1960 Professor of Ethics and Law, about her academic research in business and human rights, how her students influence her scholarship and why working outside the classroom strengthens her role as a professor, and an overview of the latest developments in artificial intelligence and their impact on higher education from Associate Professor of Business Administration Jeff Schatten.
Listeners in the W&L community and beyond are invited to listen to past episodes and seasons here or wherever they listen to podcasts.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.