By Emily InnesOctober 26, 2023
Washington and Lee University’s Staniar Gallery is pleased to present “RASTROS (lo que se hace al andar)” [“TRACES (what you do when you walk)”], a solo exhibition of mixed media works by artist and educator Nestor Armando Gil. The exhibition will be on view from Nov. 1 through Dec. 8, 2023. Gil will also give a public artist’s talk on Tuesday, Nov. 14 at 5:30 p.m. in the Lenfest Center’s Keller Theater, followed by a reception.
The exhibition and reception events are free and open to the public.
Gil’s creative practice poetically excavates his own personal history of growing up as the child of Cuban immigrants in the southern United States. He uses a wide range of materials and media to explore themes of culture and place and ask questions about movement, memory and loss. Within these themes, Gil’s art often concerns acts of passage, and the relationship between memory and myth that accompanies these acts. “RASTROS (lo que se hace al andar)” is what Gil calls “an exhibition of traces,” examining memory, loss and ritual to “peel nostalgia’s skin back, carve out its fleshy interiors, and make room for critical remembering.”
Gil received his bachelor’s degree from New College of Florida and a master of fine arts from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and he is currently an associate professor of art at Lafayette College. Gil often ideates, processes and produces work with the rotating collective of maker-collaborators known as Taller Workshop, and his work has been exhibited across the United States and around the world.
For more information about the 2023-24 exhibition and programming schedule, visit Staniar Gallery’s website.
Staniar Gallery is located on the second floor of Wilson Hall, in Washington and Lee University’s Lenfest Center for the Arts. When the campus is open to the public, gallery hours are Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. For more information, please call 540-458-8861.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.