By Emily InnesApril 14, 2023

Washington and Lee University senior Maggie Hawley ’23 has been awarded a Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship (ETA) to teach English in Spain. At W&L, Hawley is an English major with a double minor in poverty and human capability studies and education studies. Before going overseas with the Fulbright program, she will be pursuing her Virginia teaching licensure for middle and secondary English this summer. Hawley is a native of Silver Spring, Maryland, and graduated from Brookewood School.
The ETA program in Spain allows participants to assist teaching staff at the early childhood, elementary, middle school, high school, vocational or university levels. Responsibilities include teaching various subjects in the English language, directing conversation groups, and leading school programs. Assistants are also encouraged to engage with their host community.
“I am excited to immerse myself in the community and culture of my placement city,” Hawley said. “This opportunity will help me learn how to become a better teacher, a better community member, and a better person. I’m excited to connect with young people while in Spain, and to learn as much as I can about teaching since I plan to pursue it as a career.”
On campus, Hawley is involved in the residence life program, Traveller, and Campus Kitchen at W&L (CKWL), and she edits the Peak for Shenandoah Literary Magazine.
“Ever since stepping foot in Campus Kitchen as a first-year student, Maggie has made an impact on our organization,” said Ryan Brink, CKWL coordinator. “Her outgoing and caring nature made her a natural shift leader and an excellent guide for fellow students as they began learning more about Campus Kitchen, our work in the Lexington-Rockbridge community and the issues surrounding food insecurity more broadly. We have been incredibly fortunate to have had her involved in our organization and look forward to following the impacts she will make through her Fulbright year and beyond.”
Hawley appreciates the guidance and support she has received at W&L from faculty mentors, and from Margaret Swisher at Lylburn Downing Middle School, who supervised her student teaching experience.
“I love my students and my cooperating teacher, Mrs. Swisher,” Hawley said. “They have helped me fully realize that I want to go into teaching. I am so grateful for my students and for the opportunity to learn and grow alongside them.”
With the Fulbright award, Hawley will depart in September 2023 for her 10-month program. Upon completion of the program, Hawley plans to teach middle or high school English, either in the U.S. or abroad.
The Fulbright Program was established more than 75 years ago to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and the people of other countries. Fulbright is the world’s largest and most diverse international educational exchange program. The primary source of funding for the Fulbright Program is an annual appropriation made by the U.S. Congress to the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs.
Washington and Lee University is proud to be included on the list of U.S. colleges and universities that produced the most 2022-2023 Fulbright U.S. Students for the fifth consecutive year.
If you know a W&L student who has done great, accolade-worthy things, tell us about them! Nominate them for an accolade.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.