By Brian LaubscherMarch 12, 2024
Leslie Frederick, assistant director of academic reporting and operations for the Washington and Lee University Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics, will present at the 2024 Assessment and AoL Conference hosted by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) at Baruch College in New York City on March 13-14.
Frederick will co-present along with Ranida Harris from Indiana University Southeast on Thursday, March 14. The 45-minute presentation is titled “Employing Data Analytics and Visualization in your AoL Processes” and focuses on how W&L and IU Southeast utilize technology to engage faculty and streamline the Assurance of Learning (AoL) process.
Frederick’s portion of the presentation will highlight how W&L has improved its approach to curriculum mapping in the Williams School by incorporating technology such as Qualtrics (survey tool) and Tableau (data visualization tool). This has allowed for data collection and the creation of high-impact graphics that assist in the AoL process.
“Curriculum maps are a helpful component of AoL because they reveal where each department’s learning objectives occur across the curriculum,” said Frederick. “My goal is to share how we incorporate technology in this task in the hopes that someone else may be inspired to implement what we’ve done at their university.”
Harris’ portion of the presentation will demonstrate how IU Southeast has used Power BI to build interactive AoL dashboards for faculty at her university.
“The conference will be a fantastic opportunity to connect with those at other universities who are very involved in the Assurance of Learning process,” added Frederick. “While I am excited to present a small piece of our overall process at W&L, I am equally eager to bring back ideas that we might be able to incorporate to support our departments and faculty as they use data to improve student learning.”
Frederick joined W&L in 2019 and began serving in her current role with the Williams School in 2022. She earned a graduate degree in music from Baylor University and also holds a bachelor’s degree in education from Southeastern University.
AACSB is a global nonprofit association known for accrediting the top business schools in the world and is viewed as the longest-standing, most recognized form of specialized accreditation that an institution and its business programs can earn.
If you know a W&L faculty member who has done great, accolade-worthy things, tell us about them! Nominate them for an accolade.

													You must be logged in to post a comment.