The W&L Promise guarantees a minimum grant of tuition to any undergraduate student admitted to Washington and Lee with a total family income* below $100,000 and assets typical for their income. Furthermore, based on demonstrated need, students may be eligible for additional grant to cover room, board and other educational expenses.
Winners of the Johnson Scholarship receive awards of at least tuition, room and board to attend Washington and Lee University. Students with financial need higher than this amount will have any additional need met by the scholarship. Every year Johnson Scholarships are awarded to approximately ten percent of the incoming class.
QuestBridge is a powerful platform that connects the nation's brightest students from low-income backgrounds with leading institutions of higher education and further opportunities. Washington and Lee University is proud to be a QuestBridge partner college.
Explore Financial Aid Options
We realize you may face additional challenges in navigating your college experience. This page provides general information you may find helpful. Please contact your class dean if you have questions or concerns at any time. Your class dean can put you in contact with another low-socioeconomic student at W&L. You are encouraged to speak directly with Jim Kaster, Director of Financial Aid, if you have specific aid-related questions, including questions about the CSS Profile, the FAFSA and other financial aid applications and forms.
Well-managed aid packages may create discretionary credit if you use less than the allotted money for housing, books, transportation, and miscellaneous expenses.
Discretionary credit can cover opportunities with additional costs such as Outing Club membership, break trips, study abroad, Greek expenses, etc. Many students do not anticipate the additional expenses such as ordering pizza with friends, needed clothing items, tickets to FD, travel to and from airports, shipping packages or summer storage, etc. We try to promote when fee reductions or subsidies are available, but you are encouraged to ask if you are unsure. Please do not assume your participation is impossible based on cost.
The University runs a shuttle at the beginning and end of each major break to help students get to airports in D.C. or Roanoke at a reasonable cost.
If you are eligible for an Essential Opportunity grant as an incoming student that would provide an additional $3,000-$5,000 in discretionary credit over your four years at W&L, you will receive a letter from Financial Aid in July. There are a limited number of these grants, so you should not count on receiving one, but in recent years, more than 50% of eligible applicants received one.
Sophomores and juniors at W&L should apply for a Johnson Opportunity grant in January to receive $1,000-$3,000 to support a spring term or summer experience. This is a competitive process, so not every applicant will receive a grant.
Other fellowship and grant opportunities are online. Contact Matthew Loar, Director of Fellowships, to learn more.
Dean for Diversity, Inclusion and Student EngagementTamara FutrellElrod Commons 212540-458-8766tfutrell@wlu.edu
Assistant Director of Inclusion and EngagementHeidi Bustos (She/Her/Ella)Elrod Commons 214540-458-8251hbustos@wlu.edu
Asst. Dir. of Inclusion and Engagement for LGBTQ+ SupportJake Reeves (He/Him/His)Elrod Commons 217540-458-8354jreeves@wlu.edu
Senior Program Coordinator for the Office of Inclusion and EngagementFiorela Giraldo Prado de LewisElrod Commons 210540-458-4841fgiraldopradodelewis@wlu.edu
In compliance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and all other applicable non-discrimination laws, Washington and Lee University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, sex, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran's status, or genetic information in its educational programs and activities, admissions, and with regard to employment. Inquiries may be directed to the Title IX Coordinator, Elrod University Commons 212, (540) 458-4055, who is designated by the University to coordinate compliance efforts and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX, as well as those under Section 504 and other applicable non-discrimination laws. Inquiries may also be directed to the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education. See Non Discrimination Statement