New gift establishes the Frances Young Tang ’61 Professorship in Economics and the Frances Young Tang ’61 Asian Studies Program Endowment Fund.
The Skidmore College baseball team scored eight unanswered runs after falling into an early hole and outscored host Williams 15-5 after the second inning to pick up a 16-12 non-league win over the Ephs on Tuesday afternoon.



Formal performance venue with a piano on the stage



Arthur Zankel Music Center




Contact
Music Department
Video gallery


The Arthur Zankel Music Center opened in 2010 as a hub of musical activity for the
                           Skidmore College campus and surrounding communities, providing students, educators,
                           and artists with 54,000 sq. feet of space to teach, practice, perform, and support
                           music and the performing arts. 
The center’s 600-seat, acoustically tuned Helen Filene Ladd Concert Hall showcases
                           the talents of Skidmore music students and faculty on its world-class stage and draws
                           sold out crowds for performances by internationally renowned artists and scholars
                           like Jon Batiste, Branford Marsalis, Emanuel Ax, Dave Brubeck, Tank and the Bangas,
                           Ani Difranco, Havana Lyceum Orchestra, Indigo Girls, Caroline Rose, Ladysmith Black
                           Mambazo, Paul Simon, and Gloria Steinem.

More Information
Our program
From cabaret and choir to pop, piano, and public lectures, our schedule is a curation
                                       of talent we're proud to share with our community. 
What to expect
Get ready for the show. Review parking information and directions, house policies,
                                       handicap accessibility and box office information. 
Our story
What makes a public music venue on a college campus so special? Get to know us and
                                       our unique position as a multi-service and interdisciplinary arts venue. 
Swipe Left/Right to Rotate Gallery
Arthur Zankel Music CenterSkidmore College815 North BroadwaySaratoga Springs, NY 12866
Tuesday – Friday1:00 p.m. – 5:00 p.m.
518-580-5321
zankel@skidmore.edu
Buy tickets online
Join Mailing List
  

Campus Map & Directions
Request Information
Visit Skidmore
Copyright © 2024 Skidmore College. All rights reserved.