New gift establishes the Frances Young Tang ’61 Professorship in Economics and the Frances Young Tang ’61 Asian Studies Program Endowment Fund.
The Skidmore College baseball team scored eight unanswered runs after falling into an early hole and outscored host Williams 15-5 after the second inning to pick up a 16-12 non-league win over the Ephs on Tuesday afternoon.
A lifelong resident of the New York City area, Arthur Zankel was co-managing partner
                           of High Rise Capital Management, which he founded in 2000. Prior to that he was with
                           First Manhattan Co., an investment management firm, for 35 years, becoming co-managing
                           partner and then senior partner. He is credited with playing a key role in the 1998
                           merger of Citibank and Travelers Group insurance company.
Zankel served on the board of directors of Citigroup, Travelers Property-Casualty,
                           and other corporations, and was a trustee of the UJA Federation, the New York Foundation,
                           Carnegie Hall, and Skidmore College. He and his wife, Judy, made a major donation
                           to Carnegie Hall, which led to the construction of a new Carnegie concert space named
                           in their honor.
Zankel’s connections to Skidmore were many. Two of his four sons graduated from Skidmore,
                           Kenneth in 1982 and James in 1992, as did a nephew, Harun Zankel, Class of 2001, and
                           a daughter-in-law, Pia Scala Zankel, Class of 1992. As a Skidmore trustee during 1989–99,
                           he was known for his astute leadership of the board’s investment committee—particularly
                           for his role in shepherding the College’s endowment—and for his incisive contributions
                           to discussions, frequently enhanced by his sense of humor.
A generous Skidmore donor, he endowed a professorship in management and the liberal
                           arts and the related Zankel Lecture Series, which fosters discussion of business issues
                           from a societal and ethical perspective. Zankel also provided support for student
                           scholarships and for the College’s Office of Special Programs. 
With approximately 54,000 square feet of teaching, practice, performance, and administrative
                           space (more than double the size of the Filene Music Building), Skidmore’s Arthur
                           Zankel Music Center is a hub of musical activity on campus. Designed by the Philadelphia
                           architectural firms of EwingCole and BelsonDesignArchitects and drawing upon the expertise
                           of acousticians, theater designers, and landscape architects, the center reflects
                           Skidmore’s commitment to the arts and to creative thinking. 
Aligned along a north-south axis, the building is divided into two separate spheres
                           of activity, with a wide, brightly lit glass atrium in the center, serving as a crossroads
                           and a gathering space. To the south is the performance sphere, featuring the 600-seat
                           Helen Filene Ladd Concert Hall, an acoustically tuned space that can be scaled up
                           or down in size for smaller and larger audiences. Designed to accommodate both a full
                           orchestra and chorus, its stage is backed by a dramatic three-story-high glass wall
                           overlooking nearby Haupt Pond.
To the north is the instructional sphere, which includes faculty offices, 14 practice
                           rooms, the 90-seat Elisabeth Luce Moore Hall for lectures and recitals, electronic
                           music laboratory, piano lab, and several classrooms. This wing is used virtually around
                           the clock to accommodate the practice schedule and creative needs of students during
                           evening and night hours, and teaching needs during the day.
Arthur Zankel Music CenterSkidmore College815 North BroadwaySaratoga Springs, NY 12866
Tuesday – Friday1:00 p.m. – 5:00 p.m.
518-580-5321
zankel@skidmore.edu
Buy tickets online
Join Mailing List
  

Campus Map & Directions
Request Information
Visit Skidmore
Copyright © 2024 Skidmore College. All rights reserved.